2380  41^:^ 


iLlBRAUYOFgONGRESSJ 

'*  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA.  | 


:^  js» 


^_  ^^^^,  ^*4>J>.i> 


^J^i^ 


»:»  7>iW>  -^  - 


■  mwsm^> 


>3>S 


'  J*-:2^     i>j  ^J»     >;?»  i»  >-?»'\^3>_3^^^^ -*-***  ->-^ 


.,  ._ ' -XiK*  2>a>->-^  -' ' 


--^^^^1114  111 


5>5c>:3i> 


~y}-M>:m 


^3^3^ 


r^<i^-^^y  !> 

^JD>5:>^^>><  ^^ 

m^?M :- 

-C   .'  ^  >'S>  >     —  ^s^ 

i^-s!    ^^2>  >      ,-;* 

??-^^-:>3j)_^^- 

V.^^^>^  >5 

-<    ^  ^  _3i>  ;,       ,-^    . 

^<   ^    >^3     -^    ~ 

v~^W^^>'^ 

i.^.>  X^>3  < 

K>>^>3>3^ 

^-\-^       *C>3V^,si-' 

R    ^    >    >  3^^  '^- 

^^'^^?P>    ^ 

g:>^>^  s 

&^^^^^ 

^^^'^^ 


3>^3 


s>% 


>^J>^* 


>  >  >  v^- 


i>ro^>j>:»L>: 


Till?  t^ 


CONSTITUTION 


ANDv 


ASSOCIATE  STATUTES 


OF  THE 


THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY 


IN 


ANBOVER; 


WITH  A  SKETCH  OF  ITS  RISE  AND  PROGRESS. 


PUBLISHED  BY  ORDER  OF  THE  TRUSTEES. 


BOSTON : 
PUBLISHED  BY  FARRAND,  MALLORY,  AND  CO. 

SUFFOLK  BUILDINGS,  STATE  STREET. 


Belcher  and  Armstrong,  Printerg. 

1808. 


Q,©f  y  2. 


.4 


0 


HISTORIC    SKETCH, 

EXHIBITED  AT   THE  OPENING  OF   THE  THEOLOGICAL 
INSTITUTION. 

BY  ELITHALET  PEARSON,  LL.D. 


X  O  gratify  a  common  and  salutary  principle  of  hu- 
man nature,  it  has  been  thought  proper  to  introduce 
the  communications  of  the  day  with  a  brief  account  of 
the  rise,  progress,  and  object  of  the  Institution,  now  to 
be  organized.  To  arrive  at  its  origin,  it  must  be  trac- 
ed back  to  the  pious  Institution,  more  than  thirty  years 
since  founded  in  this  place  by  the  united  liberality  of  two 
brothers,  the  Hon.  Samuel  and  the  Hon.  John  Phillips, 
sons  of  the  first  Minister  of  this  Parish.  In  the  Consti- 
tution of  their  Academy  they  expressly  declare  "  that 
"  \h^  first  and  principal  object  of  their  Institution  is  the 
*^ promotion  of  true  Piety  and  Virtue."  They 
have  also  accordingly  made  it  the  duty  of  the  princi- 
pal Instructor,  "as  the  age  and  capacities  of  theschol- 
"  ars  will  admit,  not  only  to  instruct  and  establish  them 
"  in  the  truth  of  Christianity,  but  also  to  inculcate  upon 
"  them  the  great  and  important  doctrines  and  duties  of 
"  our  holy  religion."  In  promotion  of  the  same  sub- 
lime object  the  Hon.  John  Phillips  farther  gave  in  the 
year  1789,  the  generous  sum  of  JS20,000,  "  for  the 
^^  virtuous  and  pious  education  of  youth  of  genius  and 
serious  disposition"  in  this  Academy.      To  complete 


liis  liberality,  in  his  last  Will  he  bequeathed  to  the  Acad- 
emy in  Exeter,  of  which  he  was  sole  Founder,  two 
thirds  and  to  the  Academy  in  this  town  one  third  of  the 
residue  of  all  his  Estate,  "  for  the  benefit,"  as  his  ex- 
pression is,  "  more  especially  of  charity  scholars,  such 
'^  as  may  be  of  excelling  genius,  and  of  good  moral 
"  character,  preferring  the  hopefully  pious  ;  and  such  of 
''  these,  who  are  designed  to  be  employed  in  the  great 
''  and  good  vvork  of  the  gospel  ministry,  having  acquir- 
*'  edthe  most  useful  human  literature  in  either  of  these 
"  Academies  or  other  Seminaries,  may  be  assisted  in  the 
'*  study  of  Divinity  (if  a  Theological  Professor  is  not 
*'  employed  in  either  of  the  two  forementioned  Acade- 
"  mies)  under  the  direction  of  some  eminent  Calvinis- 
"  tic  Minister  of  the  gospel,  until  such  time,  as  an  able, 
"  pious,  and  orthodox  Instructor  shall,  at  least  in  part, 
"  be  supported  in  one  or  both  these  Academies,  as  a 
"  Professor  of  Divinity  ;  by  whom  they  may  be  taught 
"  the  important  principles  and  distinguishing  tenets  of 
"  our  holy  Christian  religion."  To  this  Fimd  the  Hon. 
William  Phillips,  late  of  Boston,  also  bequeathed 
y^4000  for  the  same  pious  design. 

In  the  special  appropriation  of  this  Fund  every  one 
must  remark  the  expansion  of  the  great  object  of  the 
Founders  of  the  Academy,  and  its  intimate  connexion 
with  the  Theological  Institution  now  established ;  and, 
agreeably  to  the  principal  design  of  the  Founders  and  to 
the  express  object  of  this  Fund,  a  considerable  number 
of  theological  Students,  nov/  settled  in  the  ministry^ 
have  been  supported  on  this  Foundation,  while  prose- 


ciiting  their  studies  under  the  direction  of  the  Clergy- 
man of  this  place. 

On  a  well  grounded  expectation  of  liberal  additions 
to  their  theological  fund,  the  Trustees  in  June  1807 
applied  to  the  General  Court,  to  enlarge  their  power  of 
holding  estate  and  obtained  the  following  Act. 

"  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts  ;  Whereas  the 
"  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  have  petitioned  this 
"  Court  for  liberty  to  receive  and  hold  donations  of 
'^  charitably  disposed  persons,  for, the  purpose  ofaThe- 
"  ological  Institution,  and  in  furtherance  of  the  designs 
*'  of  the  pious  Founders  and  Benefactors  of  said  Acade- 
"  my ;  and,  whereas  it  is  reasonable,  that  the  prayer 
"  should  be  granted  ; 

"Be  it  enacted  by  the  Senate  and  House  of  Repre- 
"  sentatives,  in  General  Court  assembled,  and  by  the 
*^  authority  of  the  same,  that  the  said  Trustees  of  Phil- 
"  lips  Academy  be,  and  they  are  hereby  impowered  to 
*'  receive,  purchase,  and  hold,  for  the  purposes  afore- 
*'  said,  real  and  personal  estate,  the  annual  income 
"  whereof  shall  not  exceed  ^85000,  in  addition  to  what 
"  they  are  now  allowed  by  law  to  hold  ;  provided  the 
"  income  of  the  said  real  and  personal  estate  be  always 
"applied  to  said  objects,  agreeably  to  the  will  of 
"  the  Donors,  if  consistent  with  the  original  design  of 
"  the  Founders  of  the  said  Academy." 

The  expectation,  which  gave  rise  to  this  enlargemfent 
of  power,  we  now  see  fulfilled  in  the  broad  foundation, 
since  laid  for  the  support  of  theological  Professors  and 
Students  in  this  Seminarv. 


Such,  as  we  have  now  represented,  is  the  connexion 
between  PhilHps  Academy  and  the  Theological  Institu- 
tion, whose  birth  we  this  day  celebrate ;  and  justice  as 
well,  as  gratitude,  requires  us  to  recognize  the  former, 
as  the  radix  of  the  latter,  and  as  the  embryo  of  its  fu- 
ture manhood. 

But,  while  we  trace  back  the  new  Institution  to  the 
pious  benevolence  of  men  now  in  Heaven ;  we  must 
not,  we  cannot  fail  to  acknowledge  the  immeasurable 
goodness  of  God  in  raising  up  others  to  enlarge  and 
perfect,  what  they  had  begun.  It  is  indeed  the  Lord's 
doings  and  it  is  marvellous  in  our  eyes.  That  so  ma- 
ny persons,  in  diiferent  sections  of  the  community, 
should  at  the  same  period,  and  without  communication, 
be  impressed  with  the  necessity  of  such  an  Institution, 
an  Institution  unnamed  in  the  annals  of  this  country 
and  of  Europe ;  and  that  men,  possessing  the  ability,  per- 
sonally unknown  to  each  other,  should  at  the  same  mo- 
ment be  moved,  with  almost  unprecedented  liberality, 
to  devote  their  property  to  the  education  of  a  pious  and 
learned  ministry,  must  compel,  one  would  think,  even 
atheism  itself  to  acknowledge  that  there  is  a  God  in 
heaven,  who  ruleth  among  tlie  children  of  men.  Those 
especially,  whose  situation  and  agency  have  furnished 
the  best  opportunity  of  observing  the  many  striking 
proofs  of  the  interposing,  guiding,  and  controlling  hand 
of  divine  Providence  in  the  formation  of  this  Institu- 
tion, have  had  abundant  cause  to  exclaim,  in  the  lan- 
guage of  pious  gratitude,  "■  Not  unto  us,  O  Lord,  not 
"  unto  us,  but  unto  thy  name  give  glory." 


As  the  nature  and  object  of  the  Institution,  togeth- 
er with  the  motives,  views,  and  expectations  of  the 
Founders,  will  fully  appear  from  their  respective  Stat- 
utes, now  to  be  read ;  it  is  unnecessary  to  enlarge  on 
these  topics.  I  shall  only  observe  that,  as  the  Semi- 
nary originated  in  a  conviction  of  the  importance  of  a 
learned  and  evangelical  ministry ;  so  its  primary  object 
is  to  lay  such  a  foundation  of  sacred  literature,  as  will 
best  support  and  protect  the  superstructure  of  gospel 
truth  against  the  open  assaults  and  secret  machinations 
of  atheism,  infidelity,  and  error.  Not  the  peculiarities 
of  any  sect  or  party,  but  the  great  system  of  revealed 
truth,  contained  in  the  Bible^  avowed  by  the  Reformers^ 
embraced  by  our  Fore-fathers,  and  expressed  in  the  As- 
sembly's catechism ;  it  will  be  the  duty  of  the  Profes- 
sors to  illustrate  and  maintain ;  as  must  be  evident  from 
the  creed,  which  they  are  required  to  subscribe.  Nor 
will  any  force  or  influence,  but  that  of  truth^he  employ- 
ed with  the  Students,  to  gain  their  assent  to  any  system 
or  doctrine.  And  surely  no  man  of  understanding  and 
information  can  with  propriety  denominate  that  system 
of  Christian  doctrine  sectarian,  which,  as  appears  from 
the  Harmony  of  Confessions^  has  been  received  and 
professed  by  all  Protestant  Churches  in  Europe;  which 
was  the  faith  of  the  first  settlers  of  this  country,  and  is 
still  the  faith  of  the  great  body  of  their  pious  descend- 
ants. It  is  true  indeed,  that  some  difference  in  opinion 
and  practice,  relative  to  discipline,  rites,  and  modes  of 
worship,  early  took  place  among  Protestants  in  Europe 
as  well,  as  in  this  country ;  which  has  given  rise  to  sev- 
eral denominations  of  Christians.      Still  however  the 


8 

great  doctrines  of  the  reformation  continue  to  consti- 
tute the  pubhc  creed  of  our  Churches  and  the  faith  of 
most  private  Christians.     If  it  be  true,  that  some  indi- 
viduals, who  call  themselves  Christians,  have  renounc- 
ed the  doctrines  of  the  reformation  in  general,  or  any 
cardinal  doctrine  in  paiticular;    such  individuals,  not 
the  body  of  Christians,  still  embracing  those  doctrines^ 
merit  the  epithet  sectarian,.      These  observations  are 
made,  not  to  censure  any,    who  on  some  points  may 
think  differently  from  us ;  but  merely  to  exhibit  this 
infant  Seminary  in  its  proper  attitude  and  true  light ; 
and  to  guard  against  those  misapprehensions  and  fears, 
which  it  is  natural  e^en  for  honest  and  serious  minds 
to  entertain,  concerning  an  Institution  so  novel  and  so 
interesting.     Conscious,    that  our  object  is  to  defend 
and  disseminate   the  pure  gospel  of  Christ,  we  are  soli- 
citous, that  so  good  a  cause  may  not  suffer  from  preju- 
dice, and  that  tlirough  us  divine  truth  receive  no  detri- 
ment.    Of  the  unbelieving  and  fearful  we  request,  that 
they  judge  notliing  before  the  time  ;  and,  when  that  ar- 
rives, that  we  may  be  judged  according  to  our  works. 
The  tree  is  known  by  its  fruit.     Till  that  is  formed 
and  matured,  the  wise  man  will  suspend  his  judgment 
and  his  fears,  and  the  man  of  real  candor  will  hope  the 
best. 

In  tracing  the  origin  of  the  new  Institution  the  ven- 
erable Founders  of  the  Academy,  which  bears  their 
name,  have  arisen  to  our  view  in  grateful  remembrance; 
but  even  the  tribute  of  justice  has  not  been  paid  to  the 
prime  mover  as  well,  as  active  patron  of  that  Seminary. 
Let  it  then  for  once  be  publicly  announced,  and  this 


without  diminishing  the  merit  of  the  generous  Found- 
ers, that  to  the  sagacious,  originating,  and  disinterest- 
ed mind  of  the  late  patriotic  Lieut.  Governor  Phillips, 
is  the  world  indebted  for  the  conception  of  an  Institu- 
tion, from  which  so  many  blessings  have  already  flow- 
ed to  the  community. 

What   in   this  connexion  merits  particular  notice, 
because    in   this    country     without    a    parallel,    this 
gentleman   at    the  early  age    of   twenty -one,  instead 
of  plans  for  personal  wealth  and  aggrandizement,  was 
.  planning  the  Constitution  of  yonder  Academy,  and  de- 
vising the  means  of  its  future  existence.      Yes,  this 
singular  young  man,  the  only  surviving  son  of  his  hon- 
oured Father,  and  the  darling  of  his  childless  Uncle,  by 
his  pious  representations  induced  them  to  devote  to 
this  object  of   his  heart  no  small  portion  of  that»prop- 
erty,  to  which  himself  was  a  natural  heir.      Nor  could 
the  anxieties  and  labors  of  public  life,  during  our  rev- 
olutionary war,  divert  his  attention  from  his  favorite  de- 
sign.     For  in  the  midst  of  our  national  distresses  he 
hastened  into  actual  existence  his  beloved  Academy. 
What  an  example  to  young  men  of  talents ;    what  an 
encouragement  to  all  of  every  age  !     May  this  monu- 
ment of  his  wisdom  and  piety  be  as  lasting,  as  time ; 
and  may  the  expansion  of  it  stimulate  many  to  come 
and  do  likewise. 

While  we  naturally  regret',  that  this  paragon  of  pub- 
lic spirit  so  early  took  his  upward  flight ;  we  have  to 
bless  God,  that  his  mantle  descended  on  those  around 
him  ;  and  that  a  copious  portion  of  the  same  spirit  has 
been  granted  to  others,  whom  delicacy  forbids  me  to 


10 

name.  These  also  have  come,  and  joined  themselves 
to  this  sacred  Institution ;  and  largely  have  they  brought 
of  the  gold  of  Ophir  to  the  offerings  of  the  Lord.  May 
the  God  of  Heaven  bless  them  ;  may  they  long  live  to 
witness  the  good  fruits  of  their  munificence  ;  and  here- 
after may  they  inherit  durable  riches  and  righteousness 
in  that  Kingdom,  which  shall  never  be  moved. 

The  silver  and  the  gold  are  mine,  saith  Jehovah ;  and  it 
is  the  Lord,  that  giveth  power  to  get  wealth,  and  a 
heart  to  employ  it  in  his  service.  To  Him  therefore, 
who  worketh  all  things  according  to  the  counsel  of  his 
o^vn  will,  must  we  ultimately  refer  the  origin  and  pro- 
gress of  this  Institution ;  and  to  that  Almighty  Being, 
who  is  the  sole  Author  of  every  good  and  perfect  gift,  be 
ascribed  all  the  honor  and  glory  of  this  great  work ; 
and  let  the  Founders  and  all  the  people  say,  Amen. 


CONSTITUTION 

OF    THE 

THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY. 


It  having  pleased  the  Father  of  lights  and  Author  of 
all  good  to  inspire  the  late  Honorable  Samuel  Phillips 
of  Andover  in  the  County  of  Essex  and  Common- 
wealth of  Massachusetts  Esquire,  and  the  late  Honor- 
able John  Phillips  of  Exeter  in  the  County  of  Rock- 
ingham and  State  of  New-Hampshire  Esquire,  with 
the  pious  determination  to  make  "  a  humble  dedication 
"  to  their  Heavenly  Benefactor  of  the  ability,  wherewith 
''  He  had  blessed  them,"  by  laying,  in  the  year  1778, 
in  the  South  Parish  in  Andover  aforesaid,  the  founda- 
tion of  a  public  Academy,  for  the  instruction  of  youth, 
not  only  in  the  learned  languages  and  in  various  useful 
Arts  and  Sciences,  but  principally  for  the  promotion  of 
true  piett/  and  virtue  ; — it  having  also  pleased  the  In- 
finite Mind,  at  subsequent  periods,  to  excite  the  said 
John  Phillips,  and  likewise  the  late  Honorable  William 
Phillips,  of  Boston,  in  the  County  of  Suffolk  and  Com- 
monwealth aforesaid  Esquire,  to  make  liberal  provi- 
sion, not  only  for  "  promoting  the  virtuous  and  pious 
"  education  of  indigent  youth  of  genius,  and  of  serious 
"  disposition,  in  said  Academy ;"  but  "  more  especially 
"  for  the  benefit  of  charity  Scholars  of  excelling  genius, 
"good  moral  character,  hopefully  pious,  and  designed 
"for  the  great  and  good  work  of  the  gospel  ministry, 


12 

^'  who,  living  acquired  the  most  useful  human  Litera- 
"  ture,  may  be  assisted  in  the  study  of  Divinity,  under 
*'  the  direction  of  some  eminent  Calvinistic  Minister  of 
"  the  gospel,  until  such  time,  as  an  able,  pious,  and 
^'  orthodox  Instructor  shall  be  supported  in  the  said 
"  Academy,  as  a  Professor  of  Divinity,  by  whom  they 
"may  be  taught  the  important  and  distinguishing  te- 
"  nets  of  our  Hoi?/  Christian  Religion.'''' 

In  pursuance  therefore  of  the  same  benevolent  and 
pious  object,  and  with  a  desire  to  devote  a  part  of  the 
substance,  with  which  Heaven  has  blessed  us,  to  the 
defense  and  promotion  of  the  Christian  Religion,  by 
making  some  provision  for  increasing  the  number  of 
learned  and  able  defenders  of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  as 
well  as  of  orthodox,  pious,  and  zealous  Ministers  of  the 
New  Testament  ;  being  moved  by  the  same  Spirit, 
which  actuated  the  Founders  and  Benefactors  afore- 
said, and  influenced,  as  we  hope,  by  a  principle  of 
gratitude  to  God  and  benevolence  to  man  ; — 

We,  Phoebe  Phillips  of  said  Andover,  Relict  of  Sam- 
uel Phillips  Esquu'e  late  Lieutenant-Governor  of  the 
Commonwealth  aforesaid,  and  John  Phillips,  son  of  the 
said  Samuel  Phillips  and  Phoebe  Phillips,  do  hereby 
jointly  and  severally  obligate  ourselves  to  erect  and 
finish,  with  all  convenient  dispatch,  two  separate  build- 
ings, one  of  w4iich  to  be  three  stories  high,  and  of  such 
other  dimensions,  as  to  furnish  convenient  lodging 
rooms  for  fifty  Students  ;  and  the  other  building  to  be 
two  stories  high,  and  of  such  dimensions,  as  to  furnish, 
in  addition  to  a  kitchen  and  private  rooms  necessary  to 
a  Steward's^  family,  three  public  rooms,  one  for  a  dniing 


15 

Hall,  one  for  a  Chapel  and  Lecture  room,  (each  suffi- 
ciently large  to  accommodate  sixty  Students)  and  a 
third  for  a  Library,  the  said  buildings  to  be  located  by 
direction  of  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy  ; — and 
I  Samuel  Abbot  of  Andover  aforesaid  Esquire,  with 
the  same  views,  and  in  furtherance  of  the  same  design, 
do  hereby  give,  assign,  and  set  over  unto  the  Trustees 
aforesaid  the  sum  of  twenty  thousand  dollars,  in  trust, 
as  a  fund  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  a  Professor 
of  Christian  Theology  (reserving  to  myself  the  right  of 
appointing  the  first  Professor  on  this  Foundation)  and 
for  the  support  and  encouragement  of  Students  in  Di- 
vinity ;  both  the  said  buildings  and  the  interest  or 
annual  income  of  the  said  sum  of  money  to  be  forever 
appropriated  and  applied  by  the  Trustees  aforesaid  for 
the  use  and  endowment  of  such  a  public  Theological 
Institution  in  Phillips  Academy,  as  is  herein  after  des- 
cribed, and  on  the  following  express  conditions,  viz. 
that  the  said  Institution  be  accepted  by  the  Trustees 
foresaid,  and  that  it  be  forever  conducted  and  govern- 
ed by  them  and  their  Successors  in  conformity  to  the 
following  general  Principles  and  Regulations,  w^hich 
we  unitedly  adopt  and  ratify  as  the  Constitution  of  the 
same,  reserving  to  ourselves,  however,  during  our  na- 
tural lives  the  full  right  jointly  to  make  any  additional 
regulations,  or  to  alter  any  rule  herein  prescribed,  pro- 
vided such  -  regulation  or  alteration  be  not  prejudicial 
to  the  true  design  of  this  Foundation,  viz. 

First.  This  Institution  or  Seminary  shall  be  equal- 
ly open  to  Protestants  of  every  denomination  for  the 
admission  of  young  men  of  requisite  qualifications. 


14 

Second.  Every  candidate  for  admission  into  this 
Seminary  shall  produce  satisfactory  evidence,  that  he 
possesses  good  natural  and  acquired  talents,  has  honor- 
ably completed  a  course  of  liberal  education,  and  sus- 
tains a  fair  moral  character.  He  shall  also  declare  that 
it  is  his  serious  intention  to  devote  himself  to  the  work 
of  the  gospel  ministry,  (unless  in  certain  peculiar  cases 
it  appear  to  the  Trustees,  or  a  Committee  of  their  ap- 
pointment,  that  the  object  of  this  Institution  will  be 
promoted  by  excusing  a  pious  applicant  from  making 
this  declaration)  and  exhibit  proper  testimonials  of  his 
being  in  full  communion  with  some  Church  of  Christ; 
in  default  of  which  he  shall  subscribe  a  declaration  of 
his  belief  of  the  Christian  Religion. 

Third.  The  Students  in  this  Seminary  shall  be 
aided  in  their  preparation  for  the  ministry  by  able  Pro- 
fessors ;  whose  duty  it  shall  be,  by  public  and  private 
instruction,  to  unlock  the  treasures  of  divine  knowledge, 
to  direct  the  Pupils  in  their  inquiries  after  sacred  truth, 
to  guard  them  against  religious  error,  and  to  accelerate 
their  acquisition  of  heavenly  wisdom. 

Fourth.  The  j&wM'c  instruction  shall  be  given  in 
Lectures  on  Natural  Theology,  Sacred  Literature,  Ec- 
clesiastical History,  Christian  Theology,  and  Pulpit 
Eloquence. 

Fifth.  In  the  lectures  on  Natural  Theology,  the 
existence,  attributes,  and  providence  of  God,  shall  be 
demonstrated  ;  the  soul's  immortality  and  a  future 
state,  as  deducible  from  the  light  of  nature,  discussed  ; 
the  obligations  of  man  to  his  Maker,  resulting  from  the 
divine  perfections  and  his  own  rational  nature,  enforc- 


15 

cd  ;  the  great  duties  of  social  life,  flowing  from  the 
mutual  relations  of  man  to  man,  inculcated  ;  and  the 
several  personal  virtues  deduced  and  delineated  ;  the 
whole  being  interspersed  with  remarks  on  the  coinci- 
dence between  the  dictates  of  reason  and  the  doctrines 
of  revelation,  in  these  primary  points  ;  and,  notwith- 
standing such  coincidence,  the  necessity  and  utility  of 
a  divine  revelation  stated. 

Sixth.  Under  the  head  of  Sacred  Literature  shall 
be  included  lectures  on  the  formation,  preservation,  and 
transmission  of  the  sacred  volume  ;  on  the  languages, 
in  which  the  Bible  was  originally  written  ;  on  the 
Septuagint  version  of  the  old  Testament,  and  on  the 
peculiarities  of  the  language  and  style  of  the  new  Tes- 
tament, resulting  from  this  version  and  other  causes  ; 
on  the  history,  character,  use,  and  authority  of  the  an- 
cient versions  and  manuscripts  of  the  old  and  new 
Testaments  ;  on  the  canons  of  biblical  criticism  ;  on 
the  authenticity  of  the  several  books  of  the  sacred  Code ; 
on  the  apocryphal  books  of  both  Testaments  ;  on 
modem  translations  of  the  Bible,  more  particularly  on 
the  history  and  character  of  our  English  version  ;  and 
also  critical  lectures  on  the  various  readings  and  difli- 
cult  passages  in  the  sacred  writings. 

Seventh.  Under  the  head  of  Ecclesiastical  History: 
shall  be  comprised  lectures  on  Jewish  antiquities  ;  on 
the  origin  and  extension  of  the  Christian  church  in  the 
first  three  centuries  ;  on  the  various  sects  and  heresies 
in  the  early  ages  of  Christianity  ;  on  the  character  and 
writings  of  the  fathers  ;  on  the  establishment  of  Chris- 
tianity by  Constantine,  and  its  subsequent  eiFects  ;  on 


16 

the  rise  and  progress  of  popery  and  mahometanism  ; 
on  the  corruptions  of  the  church  of  Rome  ;  on  the 
grounds,  progress,  and  doctrines  of  the  reformation  ; 
on  the  different  denominations  among  protestants  ;  on 
the  various  constitutions,  discipUne,  and  rites  of  wor- 
ship, which  have  divided,  or  may  still  divide  the  Chris- 
tian church  ;  on  the  state  and  prevalence  of  paganism 
in  our  world  ;  and  on  the  effect,  which  idolatry,  ma- 
hometanism, and  Christianity  have  respectively  produc- 
ed on  individual  and  national  character. 

Eighth.  Under  the  head  of  Christian  Theology 
shall  be  comprehended  lectures  on  divine  revelation  ; 
on  the  inspiration  and  truth  of  the  old  and  new  Testa- 
ments, as  proved  by  miracles,  internal  evidence,  fulfil- 
ment of  prophecies,  and  historic  facts  ;  on  the  great 
doctrines  and  duties  of  our  holy  Christian  religion,  to- 
gether with  the  objections  made  to  them  by  unbeliev- 
ers, and  the  refutation  of  such  objections  ;  more  par- 
ticularly on  the  revealed  character  of  God,  as  Father, 
Son,  and  Holy  Ghost  ;  on  the  fall  of  man  and  the  de- 
pravity of  human  nature  ;  on  the  covenant  of  grace  ; 
on  the  character,  offices,  atonement,  and  mediation  of 
Jesus  Christ  ;  on  the  character  and  offices  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  ;  on  the  scripture  doctrines  of  regenera- 
tion, justification,  and  sanctifi cation  ;  on  evangelical 
repentance,  faith,  and  obedience  ;  on  the  nature  and 
necessity  of  true  virtue  or  gospel  holiness  ;  on  the  fu- 
ture state,  the  immortality  of  soul  and  body,  and  the 
eternity  of  future  rewards  and  punishments,  as  revealed 
in  the  gospel  ;  on  the  positive  institutions  of  Christian- 
ity ;  on  the  nature,  interpretation,  and  use  of  prophecy ; 


17 

and  on  personal  religion,  as  a  qualification  for  the  min- 
istry ;  each  Lecture  under  this  head  to  be  preceded  and 
followed  by  prayer. 

Ninth.  Under  the  head  of  Pulpit  Eloquence  shall 
be  delivered  a  competent  number  of  lectures  on  the 
importance  of  oratory  ;  on  the  invention  and  disposi- 
tion of  topics  ;  on  the  several  parts  of  a  regular  dis- 
course ;  on  elegance,  composition,  and  dignity  in  style ; 
on  pronunciation,  or  the  proper  management  of  the 
voice  and  correct  gesture  ;  on  the  immense  impor- 
tance of  a  natural  manner  ;  on  the  rules  to  be  observ- 
ed in  composing  a  sermon,  and  on  the  adaptation  of  the 
principles  and  precepts  ofantient  rhetoric  to  this  modern 
species  of  oration  ;  on  the  qualities  in  the  speaker,  in 
his  style,  and  in  his  delivery,  necessary  to  a  finished 
pulpit  Orator  ;  on  the  methods  of  strengthening  the 
memory,  and  of  improving  in  sacred  eloquence  ;  on 
the  character  and  style  of  the  most  eminent  Divines  and 
best  models  for  imitation,  their  respective  beauties  and 
excellencies  in  .thought  and  expression  ;  and  above  all, 
on  the  transcendent  simplicity,  beauty,  and  sublimity 
of  the  sacred  writings. 

Tenth.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Professors,  by 
private  instruction  and  advice,  to  aid  the  Students  in 
the  acquisition  of  a  radical  and  adequate  knowledge  of 
the  sacred  scriptures  in  their  original  languages,  and  of 
the  old  Testament  in  the  Septuagint  version ;  to  direct 
their  method  of  studying  the  Bible  and  all  other  writ- 
ings ;  to  superintend  and  animate  their  pursuits  by 
frequent  inquiri^^  and  examinations,  relative  to  their 
progress  in  books  and  knowledge  ;   to  assign  proper 


IS 

subjects  for  their  first  compositions,  and  to  suggest  a 
natural  method  of  treating  them  ;  frequently  and  crit- 
ically to  examine  their  early  productions,  and  in  a  free, 
but  friendly  manner,  to  point  out  their  defects  and  er- 
rors, in  grammar,  method,  reasoning,  style,  and  senti- 
ment ;  to  improve  them  in  the  important  art  of  read- 
ing, and  to  give  them  opportunities  of  speaking  in  pub- 
lic, favoring  them  with  their  candid  remarks  on  their 
whole  mamier  ;  to  explain  intricate  texts  of  scripture, 
referred  to  them  ;  to  solve  cases  of  conscience  ;  to 
watch  over  their  health  and  morals  with  paternal  solici- 
tude ;  and  by  every  prudent  and  christian  method  to 
promote  the  growth  of  true  piety  in  their  hearts  ;  to 
give  them  friendly  advice  with  relation  to  their  neces- 
sary intercourse  among  men  in  the  various  walks  of  life, 
and  especially  with  respect  to  the  mamier,  in  which  it 
becomes  a  minister  of  the  meek  and  lowly  Jesus  to 
addi'ess  both  God  and  man,  whether  in  the  assembly 
of  his  saints,  or  in  the  chamber  of  sickness  and  of  death. 
Eleventh.  Every  Professor  in  this  Seminary 
shall  be  a  Master  of  Ai'ts,  of  the  Protestant  reformed 
religion,  in  communion  with  some  Christian  church 
of  the  Congregational  or  Presbyterian  denomination, 
and  sustain  the  character  of  a  sober,  honest,  learned, 
and  pious  man  ;  he  shall  moreover  be  a  man  of  sound 
and  orthodox  principles  in  Di^'inity,  according  to  that 
form  of  sound  v/ords  or  system  of  evangelical  doc- 
trines, drawn  from  the  scriptures,  and  denominated  the 
Westminster  Assembly's  shorter  Catechism,  and  more 
concisely  delineated  in  the  Constitution  of  Phillips 
Academy. 


19 

Twelfth.  Every  person  therefore,  appointed  or 
elected  a  Professor  in  this  Seminary,  shall  on  the  day 
of  his  inauguration,  and  in  the  presence  of  the  said 
Trustees,  publicly  make  and  subscribe  a  solemn  de- 
claration of  his  faith  in  divine  revelation,  and  in  the 
fundamental  and  distinguishing  doctrines  of  the  gospel 
of  Clirist,  as  summarily  expressed  in  the  Westmin- 
ster Assembly's  shorter  Catechism  ;  and  he  shall  far- 
thermore  solemnly  promise,  that  he  will  open  and  ex- 
plain the  Scriptures  to  his  Pupils  with  integrity  and 
faithfulness  ;  that  he  Vv^ill  maintain  and  inculcate  the 
christian  faith,  as  above  expressed,  together  with  all 
the  other  doctrines  and  duties  of  our  holy  religion,  so 
far  as  may  appertain  to  his  office,  according  to  the  best 
light  God  shall  give  him,  and  in  opposition,  not  only  to 
Atheists  and  Infidels,  but  to  Jews,  Mahometans,  Arians, 
Pelagians,  Antinomians,  Arminians,  Socinians,  Unita- 
rians, and  Universalists,  and  to  all  other  heresies  and 
errors,  antient  or  modern,  which  may  be  opposed  to 
the  gospel  of  Christ,  or  hazardous  to  the  souls  of 
men  ; — that  by  his  instruction,  counsel,  and  example, 
he  will  endeavour  to  promote  true  Piety  and  Godliness  ; 
that  he  will  consult  the  good  of  this  Institution  and  the 
peace  of  the  churches  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  on 
all  occasions  ;  and  that  he  will  religiously  observe  the 
Statutes  of  this  Institution,  relative  to  his  official  duties 
and  deportment,  and  all  such  other  Statutes  and  Laws 
as  shall  be  constitutionally  made  by  the  Trustees  of 
Phillips  Academy,  not  repugnant  thereto. 

Thirteenth.  The  preceding  declaration  shall  be 
repeated  by  every  Professor  in  this  Seminary,  in  the 


20 

presence  of  the  said  Trustees,  at  the  exphatioii  of  ev- 
cry  successive  period  of  five  yeai's  ;  and  no  man  shall 
be  continued  a  Professor  in  this  Institution,  who  shall 
not  continue  to  approve  himself,  to  the  satisfaction  of 
tlie  said  Trustees,  a  man  of  sound  and  orthodox  princi- 
ples in  Divinity,  agreeably  to  the  system  of  evangelical 
doctrines,  contained  in  the  aforesaid  Catechism.  Ac- 
cordingly, if  at  any  meeting  regularly  appointed,  it 
should  be  proved  to  the  satisfaction  of  a  majority  of 
the  whole  number  of  the  said  Trustees,  that  any  Pro- 
fessor in  this  Institution  has  taught  or  embraced  any  of 
the  heresies  or  errors,  alluded  to  in  the  Declaration 
aforesaid  ;  or,  should  he  refuse  to  repeat  the  same,  as 
herein  required,  he  shall  be  forthwith  removed  from 
office. 

Fourteenth.  Every  Professor  in  this  Institution 
shall  be  under  the  immediate  inspection  of  the  said 
Trustees,  and  by  them  be  removed,  agreeably  to  tlie 
W'ill  of  his  Founder,  for  gross  neglect  of  duty,  scanda- 
lous immorality,  mental  incapacity,  or  any  other  just 
and  sufficient  cause. 

Fifteenth.  Whenever  a  Professor  in  this  Semi- 
nary shall  be  removed  by  death  or  otherwise,  the  said 
Trustees  shall  elect  a  successor  within  twelve  months. 

Sixteenth.  The  Trustees  aforesaid,  in  conform- 
ity to  the  statutes  of  every  Founder,  shall  assign  to  the 
Professors  in  this  Seminary  their  respective  departments 
of  instruction,  the  times  for  reading  their  lectures,  and 
their  several  public  and  private  duties,  in  such  manner, 
as,  after  consultation  with  the  said  Professors,  shall  to 
the  said  Trustees  appear  most  convenient  and  useful  ; 


21 

provided  however,  that  the  course  of  lectures  in  each 
department  be  always  completed  within  the  space  of 
three  years. 

Seventeenth.  The  necessary  expences  of  indi- 
gent Students  at  this  Seminary,  for  board,  lodgings 
Avashing,  /uel,  and  light,  will  be  defrayed  out  of  funds 
appropriated  to  this  purpose,  agreeably  to  the  regula- 
tions, in  such  case  provided,  and  as  said  funds  may 
permit. 

Eighteenth.  No  person  shall  be  admitted  a  Stu - 
dent  on  the  charitable  Foundation,  who  is  not  distin- 
guished by  natural  abilities,  literary  acquirements,  un- 
blemished morals,  and  hopeful  piety  ;  a  certificate  of 
which  qualities  will  be  required  from  known  and  res- 
pectable characters,  in  order  to  the  enjoyment  of  this 
charity. 

Nineteenth.  To  be  entitled  to  the  maintenance 
aforesaid,  each  Student  on  the  charitable  Foundation, 
unless  prevented  by  sickness,  must  reside  at  this  Semi- 
nary nine  months  at  least  in  each  year,  regularly  at- 
tending the  exercises  aforesaid  as  well,  as  diligently 
prosecuting  the  studies  prescribed,  and  in  all  respects 
conforming  to  the  rules  of  this  Constitution,  and  to  the 
laws  and  orders  of  the  said  Trustees. 

Twentieth.  Whatever  may  be  the  number  of 
vacations,  the  aggregate  thereof  shall  not  exceed  eight 
weeks  in  any  one  year  ;  and  the  constant  presence  of 
the  Professors  and  Students  will  be  expected  in  term 
time. 

Twenty-first.  Every  Student  in  this  Seminary 
shall  constantly^  punctually,  and  seriously  attend  the 


22 

religious  exercises  of  the  chapel  morning  and  evening, 
and  all  the  public  lectures  of  the  several  Professors  ; 
and,  to  increase  the  reverence  due  to  religious  institu- 
tions as  well,  as  to  give  weight  to  public  instruction, 
it  is  expected,  that  the  Professors  not  only  frequent  the 
chapel  at  morning  and  evening  prayers,  but  that  they 
constantly  attend  each  other's  public  lectures. 

Twenty-second.  Every  Student  in  this  Semina- 
ry is  required  to  devote  so  much  time  to  the  study  of 
the  learned  languages,  as  shall  increase  his  knowledge 
of  them,  especially  of  the  Greek  and  Hebrew  lan- 
guages; to  pay  due  attention  to  Philology,  Rlietoric,  and 
Oratory  ;  to  read  the  best  treatises  on  natural  and  re- 
vealed Religion,  and  on  the  fundamental  doctrines  of 
the  Gospel  ;  to  make  himself  master  of  the  principal 
arguments  and  evidences  of  the  truth  of  Christianity  ; 
to  pay  due  attention  to  ecclesiastical  History,  and  to 
the  canons  of  biblical  Criticism.  But  above  all,  it  is 
required,  that  he  make  the  Bible  the  object  of  his  most 
attentive,  dihgent,  and  prayerful  study. 

Twenty-third.  It  will  be  the  duty  of  the  Pro- 
fessors in  this  Seminary  to  prepare  a  list  of  such  books, 
and  to  point  out  such  a  course  of  study,  as  in  their 
opinion  may  be  most  congenial  to  the  true  design  of 
this  Institution,  and  most  beneficial  to  the  Students  in 
it ;  which  list  of  books  and  course  of  study,  being  ap- 
proved by  said  Trustees,  said  Students  shall  pursue  ; 
they  shall  also  frequently  ask  the  advice  and  assistance 
of  the  Professors  with  reference  to  their  studies  ;  and 
often  submit  their  theological  compositions,  especially 


their  first  essays,  to  the  friendly  inspection  and  faithful 
remarks  of  one  or  more  of  the  said  Professors, 

TwENTy-FOURTH.  Each  Student,  once  at  least  in 
every  year,  shall  acquaint  the  Professors  with  the  books, 
he  has  read,  and  with  his  course  of  study,  during  said 
year  ;  and  shall  also  be  examined  in  the  original  lan- 
guages of  die  old  and  new  Testament,  and  in  the 
Septuagint  version  of  the  former  ;  also  with  reference 
to  the  leading  sentiments  and  arguments  of  the  princi- 
pal authors,  he  has  perused  ;  but  especially  with  res- 
pect to  the  style,  character,  and  design  of  those  sacred 
writers,  which  agreeably  to  direction  he  has  particu- 
larly studied. 

Twenty-fifth.  If  upon  due  and  impai'tial  ex- 
amination it  be  found,  that  any  Student  on  the  charita- 
ble Foundation  aforesaid,  has  not  made  reasonable  pro- 
ficiency in  the  studies  prescribed  him,  he  shall  be  con- 
tinued thereon  no  longer ;  and,  if  any  Student  whatever 
in  this  Seminary  shall  be  guilty  of  any  gross  immorali- 
ty, or  of  any  insult  or  oppugnation  to  the  said  Trustees, 
or  to  any  Professor  or  Officer  of  this  Seminary,  he  shall 
be  cut  off  from  all  the  advantages  and  benefits  of  this 
Institution,  unless  he  make  reasonable  and  immediate 
satisfaction  for  his  offence. 

Twenty-sixth.  Whenever  a  Student  shall  have 
honorably  finished  his  term  and  course  of  study  under 
the  direction  of  the  Professors,  and  such  Student  shall 
request  it,  a  Certificate,  signed  by  the  Professors,  speci- 
fying how  long  such  Student  has  studied  under  the 
direction,  and  attended  the  lectures  of  the  Professors, 
that  he  has  prosecuted  his  studies  with  diligence,  and 


24 

sustained  a  good  moral  character,  shali  be  given  him  ; 
provided  ahvays,  that  his  conduct,  and  his  proficiency 
in  theological  knowledge  be  such,  as  to  merit  the  same. 

Twenty -SEVENTH.  After  the  expiration  of  the 
first  three  years  from  the  opening  of  this  Institution,  it 
will  be  required  of  all  persons,  who  may  wish  to  enjoy 
the  advantages  of  the  same,  that  they  statedly  reside  at 
the  Seminary  three  full  years,  vacations  excepted  ;  a 
period  scarcely  sufficient  for  acquiring  that  fund  of 
knowledge,  which  is  necessary  for  a  minister  of  the 
gospel.  No  Student  therefore,  after  the  expiration  of 
the  first  three  years  of  the  Institution,  shall  be  entitled 
to  the  Certificate  aforesaid,  nor  can  any  one  leave  the 
Seminary  in  an  honorable  manner,  within  the  term  of 
three  years  of  such  residence,  except  by  permission, 
specially  obtained  of  the  Trustees,  in  case  of  necessity. 

Twenty-eighth.  Eveiy  morning  and  evening, 
during  term  time,  religious  exercises  shall  be  performed 
in  the  chapel,  and  these  exercises  shall  usually  be,  as  fol- 
lows. The  divine  assistance  and  blessing  shall  be  first 
implored  in  a  short  prayer  ;  a  devotional  chapter  or 
psalm  shall  then  be  read,  accompanied  with  pious  and 
practical  reflections  ;  or,  instead  of  this,  once  at  least 
in  every  week,  an  exposition  shall  be  given  upon  some 
deeply  interesting  passage  of  scripture  ;  to  this  shall 
succeed  a  piece  of  genuine  psalmody ;  and  the  services 
be  concluded  by  an  appropriate  prayer.  In  these  ex- 
ercises the  Professors  shall  preside  and  ordinarily  offi- 
ciate ;  but  Students  of  two  years  standing  may  occa- 
sionally perform  them  in  whole  or  in  part,  according  t© 


^5 

the  desire  and  direction  of  the  Professors.  Moreover, 
as  soon  as  circumstances  will  permit,  a  regular  church 
will  be  formed  in  this  Seminary,  consisting  chiefly  of 
the  Professors,  Students,  and  families,  connected  with 
this  Seminary  and  Phillips  Academy  ;  after  which,  if 
not  before,  divine  services  will  be  publicly  celebrated 
in  the  chapel  of  the  Seminary,  in  the  forenoon  and  af- 
ternoon of  every  Lord  's-day,  during  term  time.  These 
services  shall  be  usually  performed  by  the  Professors, 
but  sometimes  by  such  senior  Students,  as  may  have 
obtained  permission  of  the  Professors  to  preach  occa- 
sionally ;  and  they  shall  be  attended  by  all  the  Students 
of  this  Institution,  and  by  as  many  of  the  families  of 
the  Professors  and  Officers,  connected  with  it,  or  with 
Phillips  Academy,  as  may  wish  for  this  privilege,  and 
by  as  many  pupils  of  said  Academy,  as  may  be  deem- 
ed expedient  by  the  Trustees  aforesaid. 

Twenty-ninth.  The  senior  Students  will  be  re- 
quired, not  only  to  prepare  sermons,  but  occasionally 
to  deliver  them  in  public,  both  in  the  Seminary  and'  in 
neighbouring  congregations,  as  may  be  judged  expe. 
dient  by  the  said  Professors.  No  Student,  however, 
shall  presume  to  preach,  before,  upon  thorough  ex- 
amination of  his  qualifications  and  motives  for  preach- 
ing, he  shall  have  obtained  a  written  permission  there- 
for, subscribed  by  the  Professors,  or  the  major  part  of 
them.  This  pemiission,  however,  is  never  to  super- 
sede the  customary  approbation  or  license  of  some  re- 
gular Association  or  Presbyter}^ 


26 

Thirtieth.  Sacred  Music,  and  especially  Psalm- 
ody, being  an  important  part  of  public,  social  worship, 
and,  as  it  is  proper  for  those,  who  are  to  preside  in  the 
assemblies  of  God's  people,  to  possess  themselves  so 
much  skill  and  taste  in  this  sublime  art,  as  at  least  to 
distinguish  between  those  solemn  movements,  which 
are  congenial  to  pious  minds,  and  those  unhallowed, 
trifling,  medley  pieces,  which  chill  devotion  ;  it  is  ex- 
pected, that  serious  attention  will  be  paid  to  the  culture 
of  a  true  taste  for  genuine  Church  Music  in  this  Semi- 
nary ;  and  that  all  Students  therein,  who  have  tolerable 
voices,  will  be  duly  instructed  in  the  theory  and  prac- 
tice of  this  celestial  art  ;  and,  whenever  it  shall  be  in 
the  power  of  either  of  the  said  Professors,  it  shall  ac- 
cordingly be  his  duty  to  afford  this  necessary  instruc- 
tion ;  and,  whenever  this  shall  not  be  the  case,  it  is 
expected,  that  an  Instructor  will  be  procured  for  this 
puqoose. 

Thirty-first.  All  Professors,  Officers,  and  Stu- 
dents in  this  Seminary,  and  all  other  persons  employed 
in  its  service,  together  with  the  Lands,  Buildings,  Li- 
brary, Funds,  and  all  other  property,  thereto  belong- 
ng  shall  be  under  the  immediate  inspection  and  gov- 
ernment of  the  Trustees  aforesaid,  and  be  regulated 
and  managed  by  them  in  strict  conformity  to  this  Con- 
stitution, and  to  the  Statutes  and  JVill  oi  every  Foun. 
DER  of  a  Professorships  or  Benefactor  of  this  Institu- 
tion. And  the  said  Trustees  are  hereby  authorized  and 
empowered  to  make  such  additional  Regulations,  (not 
inconsistent  with  the  Regulations  established  in  this 
Constitution,  nor  v/ith  the  Statutes  or  Will  oi  ^x\j  Foun- 


27 

der  or  Donor ^  nor  with  the  object  of  this  Institution,  nor 
in  any  degree  avoiding  them  or  either  of  them)  as  they 
in  their  wisdom  shall  deem  necessary  to  give  the  fullest 
efficacy  to  these  provisions,  or  the  consistent  provisions 
of  future  Benefactors  ;  whether  such  Regulations  may 
relate  to  the  conduct  of  the  Professors,  the  government 
of  the  Students,  their  various  duties  and  exercises,  their 
lodging  and  diet,  the  prevention  and  punishment  of  of- 
fences, the  preservation  of  health,  the  promotion  of  or- 
der, peace,  and  harmony,  to  the  safety  of  the  buildings, 
or  to  the  security  of  the  Funds,  which  last  are  to  be 
elFectually  guarded  against  all  loss  and  diminution ;  in 
a  word,  to  do  every  thing,  under  the  foregoing  limita- 
tions, which,  upon  serious  and  mature  deliberation,  may 
appear  to  them  necessary  to  secure  and  promote  the 
true  object  of  this  Institution. 

Thirty^second.     Notwithstanding  this  Seminary 
is  placed,  by  this  Constitution,  under  the  immediate 
care  and  government  of  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Acad- 
emy, it  is  always  to  be  understood,  and  it  is  hereby 
expressly  declared,  that  every  Founder  of  a  Professor- 
shijp,  Scholarship,  or  any  other  Living  whatever,  in  this 
Institution,  will  have  the  exclusive  right  of  prescribing 
the  Regulations  and  Statutes,  to  be  observed  by  the 
said  Trustees  in  conducting  the  concerns  of  the  same, 
said  Regulations  and  Statutes  being  always  consistent 
with  the  principles  and  object  of  this  Institution  ;  and 
also  the  right  of  appointing,  in  the  original  deed  or 
grant  for  the  term  of  his  life,  such  local  Visitor  or 
Visitors,  as  he  may  think  proper,  and  to  endow  him  or 
^em  with  all  visitatorial  powers  and  authorities,  neces-. 


28 

sary  to  secure  and  enforce  due  observance  and  execu- 
tion of  his  said  Regulations  and  Statutes. 

Thirty-third.  Whereas  the  necessary  business 
of  this  Seminary  will  be  sufficient  to  employ  the  said 
Trustees  one  day  at  least  in  every  year  ;  they  are  re- 
quested to  hold  an  annual  meeting  for  transacting  the 
same,  on  such  day  in  each  year,  as  they  may  appoint  ; 
and  likewise  to  meet  as  much  oftener,  as  the  good  of 
said  Seminary  may  require  ;  and  at  each  annual  meet- 
ing to  read  this  Constitution.  The  rules  and  modes  of 
doing  business  at  all  such  meetings  shall  be  the  same^ 
mutatis  mutandis,  which  are  prescribed  in  the  Consti- 
tution of  Phillips  Academy.  Decent,  not  extravagant 
entertainment,  shall  be  made  for  the  Trustees,  whil^ 
attending  the  said  meetings,  reasonable  compensation 
made  to  the  Treasurer  of  said  Academy,  for  his  ser- 
vices, and  other  necessary  expenses  of  this  Institution 
defrayed  out  of  the  income  of  its  funds.  It  is  also  par- 
ticularly requested,  that  all  the  transactions  of  the  said 
Trustees,  relative  to  the  said  Theological  Institution, 
be  recorded  in  a  distinct  book  ;  and  likewise  that  all 
property  given,  devised,  or  bequeathed  for  the  support 
of  this  Seminary,  be  separated  and  forever  kept  distinct 
from  all  other  property,  to  the  Trustees  aforesaid  in 
any  way  or  for  any  other  purpose  entrusted,  being 
never  blended  therewith  in  any  part  or  degree,  by  loan 
or  purchase  ;  and  that  the  said  Treasurer  accordingly 
keep  all  his  accounts  and  entries,  relative  to  these 
Funds,  in  distinct  books,  and  all  monies,  evidences  of 
property,  receipts,  papers,  and  books  of  account,  ap- 
pertaining to  this  Institution,  in  a  separate  trunk  or 


29 

chest,  prepared  for  prompt  removal  on  any  emergence ; 
and  that  the  accounts  of  said  Treasurer  be  annually 
audited  by  a  Committee,  for  this  purpose  appointed, 
who  shall  report  to  the  said  Trustees  in  writing. 

Thirty-fourth.  Confiding  in  the  wisdom  and 
fidelity  of  the  said  Trustees  and  their  Successors  in 
office,  and  with  the  pleasing  hope  and  expectation,  that 
they  will  religiously  appropriate  the  aforesaid  buildings 
and  the  income  of  the  aforesaid  Fund,  and  of  all  future 
Donations  for  the  same  pious  purpose,  to  the  great 
object  of  supporting  a  theological  Seminary,  such  as 
herein  contemplated  and  described,  agreeably  to  the 
principles  and  regulations  contained  in  this  Constitution ; 
we  do  now,  under  God,  cheerfully  commit  this  our 
Foundation  to  their  pious  and  watchful  care,  trusting 
that  no  exertion  on  their  part  will  be  wanting  to  the 
success  of  an  Institution,  so  intimately  connected  with 
the  glory  of  God,  the  advancement  of  the  Redeemer's 
kingdom,  and  the  salvation  of  their  fellow  men. 

But,  while  we  thus  express  our  conviction  of  the 
necessity  and  utility  of  this  Institution,  it  is  our  earnest 
prayer,  that  our  own  minds,  and  the  minds  of  the 
Trustees,  Professors,  Students,  and  all  connected 
therewith,  may  be  ever  penetrated  by  a  deep  sense  of 
the  necessity  of  the  divine  direction,  influence,  and 
blessing,  to  render  even  the  wisest  provisions  and  the 
best  human  instructions  ultimately  successful. 

To  the  Spirit  of  truth,  to  the  divine  Author  of  our 
faith,  to  the  only  wise  God,  we  desire  in  sincerity  to 
present  this  our  humble  offering  :  devoutly  imploring 
Xht  Father  of  lights  richly  to  endue  with  wisdom  from 


30 

above  all  his  servants  the  Trustees  of  this  Seminary, 
and  with  spiritual  understanding  the  Professors  there- 
in, that,  being  illuminated  by  the  Holy  Spirit^  their 
doctrine  may  drop  as  the  rain,  and  their  speech  distil 
as  the  dew  ;  and  that  their  Pupils  may  become  trees 
of  renown  in  the  courts  of  our  God,  whereby  He  may 
be  glorified. 

In  witness  whereof  we  the  subscribers  have  hereunto 
set  our  hands  and  seals  this  thirty  first  day  of  August 
in  the  year  of  our  Lord  one  thousand  eight  hundred 
and  seven.        ' 

PHCEBE  PHILLIPS,  (S) 
JOHN  PHILLIPS,  Jun.  (S) 
SAMUEL  ABBOT.        (S) 

Signed^  sealed^  and  delivered 
in  presence  of 
SAMUEL  STEARNS, 
JOSEPH  PHELPS, 
AMOS  BLANCHARD. 


ADDITIONAL  STATUTES. 


We  the  subscribers,  having  made  some  provision  for. 
the  establishment  of  a  Theological  Institution  in  con- 
nexion with  Phillips  Academy,  by  covenanting  to  erect 
certain  buildings  therefor,  and  by  laying  a  Foundation 
for  a  Professorship  of  Christian  Theology  therein,  and 
having  given  a  Constitution,  containing  principles  and 
regulations  for  the  management  of  the  said  Institution, 
which  has  been  accepted  by  the  Trustees  of  said 
Academy,  in  which  we  "  reserved  to  ourselves,  during 
"  our  natural  lives,  the  right  jointly  to  make  any  ad- 
"  ditional  regulations,  or  to  alter  any  rule  therein  pre- 
''  scribed,  provided  such  regulation  or  alteration  be  not 
"  prejudicial  to  the  true  design  of  said  Foundation"— 
We  do  now,  agreeably  to  the  said  reserved  right,  and 
in  furtherance,  as  we  trust,  of  our  original  design  there- 
in expressed,  make  and  ordain  the  following  articles,  to 
be  added  to,  and  taken,  as  a  part  of  our  said  Constitu- 
tion ;  Provided  the  said  Trustees  shall  accept  the  Sta- 
tutes and  .Foundation  of  the  Associate  Founders, 
so  called,  viz,  of  Moses  Brown  and  WilliamBart- 
LET  Esquires  of  Newbury  Port  and  the  Honorable 
John  Norris  Esquire  of  Salem,  which  are  now  exe- 
cuted, and  to  be  laid  before  the  said  Trustees,  at  their 


32 

approaching  meeting,  for  their  acceptance  ;  and  to  con- 
tinue of  full  force,  as  a  part  of  our  said  Constitution,  so 
long  as  the  said  Associate  Foundation  shall  continue 
attached  to  our  said  Institution,  and  no  longer. 
.  First.  Having  provided  in  the  twelfth  Article  of 
our  said  Constitution,  that  "  every  person,  appoint- 
'*  ed  or  elected  a  Professor  in  the  said  Seminary,  shall 
"  on  the  day  of  his  inauguration  publicly  make  and 
'*  subscribe  a  declaration  of  his  faith  in  divine  revela- 
"  tion,  and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguishing  doc- 
"trines  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  as  summarily  expres- 
*^  sed  in  the  Westminster  Assembly's  Shorter  Cate- 
"  chism  ;"  We  now  ordain  the  following  addition,  to 
be  inserted  in  said  Article,  in  connexion  with  the  said 
clause,  viz,  'and  as  more  particularly  expressed  in  the 
following  Creed,  to  wit, 

'  I  believe  that  there  is  one  and  but  one  living  and  true^ 
God  ;  that  the  word  of  God,  contained  in  the  Scrip- 
tures  of  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  is  the  only  per- 
fect rule  of  faith  and  practice  ;  that  agreeably  to  those 
Scriptures  God  is  a  Spirit,  infinite,  eternal,  and  un- 
changeable in  his  being,  wisdom,  power,  holiness,  jus- 
tice, goodness,  and  truth  ;  that  in  the  Godhead  arc 
three  Persons,  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy 
Ghost  ;  and  that  these  Three  are  One  God,  the 
same  in  substance,  equal  in  power  and  glory  ;  that 
God  created  man  after  his  own  image  in  knowledge, 
righteousness,  and  holiness  ;  that  the  glory  of  God  is 
man's  chief  end,  and  the  enjoyment  of  God  his  su- 
preme happiness ;  that  this  enjoyment  is  derived  solely 
from  conformity  of  heart  to  the  moral  character  and 


33 

will  of  God  ;  that  Adam,  the  federal  head  and  repre- 
sentative of  the  human  race,  was  placed  in  a  state  of 
probation,  and  that  in  consequence  of  his  disobedience 
all  his  descendants  were  constituted  sinners  ;  that  by- 
nature  every  man  is  personally  depraved,  destitute  of 
holiness^  unlike  and  opposed  to  God,  and  that  pre- 
viously to  the  renewing  agency  of  the  Divine  Spirit 
all  his  moral  actions  are  adverse  to  the  character  and 
glory  of  God  ;  that,  being  morally  incapable  of  re- 
covering the  image  of  his  Creator,  which  was  lost  in 
Adam,  every  man  is  justly  exposed  to  eternal  damna- 
tion ;  so  that,  except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot 
see  the  kingdom  of  God  ;  thatGoD,of  his  mere  good 
pleasure,  from  all  eternity  elected  some  to  everlasting 
life,  and  that  he  entered  into  a  covenant  of  grace  to 
deliver  them  out  of  this  state  of  sin  and  misery  by  a 
Redeemer  ;  that  the  only  Redeemer  of  the  elect  is 
the  eternal  Son  of  God,  who  for  this  purpose  became 
man,  and  continues  to  be  God  and  man  in  two  distinct 
natures  and  one  person  forever  ;  that  Christ,  as  our 
Redeemer,  executeth  the  office  of  a  Prophet,  Priest^ 
and  King  ;  that,  agreeably  to  the  covenant  of  redemp- 
tion, the  Son  of  God,  and  he  alone,  by  his  suffering 
and  death,  has  made  atonement  for  the  sins  of  all  men  ; 
that  repentance,  faith,  and  holiness  are  the  personal  re- 
quisites in  the  Gospel  scheme  of  salvation  ;  that  the 
righteousness^ of  Christ  is  the  only  ground  of  a  sin- 
ner's justification  ;  that  this  righteousness  is  received 
through  faith  ;  and  that  this  faith  is  the  gift  of  God  ; 
so  that  our  salvation  is  wholly  of  grace  ;  that  no  means 
whatever  can  change  the  heart  of  a  sinner  and  make  it 


34 

holy  ;  that  regeneration  and  sanctification  are  effects  of 
the  creating  and  renewing  agency  oftheHoLySpiRix, 
and  that  supreme  love  to  God  constitutes  the  essential 
difference  between  saints  and  sinners  ;  that  by  con- 
vincing us  of  our  sin  and  misery,  enlightening  our 
minds,  working  faith  in  us,  and  renewing  our  wills, 
the  Holy  Spirit  makes  us  partakers  of  the  benefits 
of  redemption  ;  and  that  the  ordinar^^  means,  by  which 
these  benefits  are  communicated  to  us,  are  the  word, 
sacraments,  and  prayer ;  that  repentance  unto  life,  faith 
to  feed  upon  Christ,  love  to  God,  and  new  obedience, 
are  the  appropriate  qualifications  for  the  Lord's  sup- 
per ;  and  that  a  Christian  Church  ought  to  admit  no 
person  to  its  holy  communion,  before  he  exhibit  credi- 
ble evidence  of  his  godly  sincerity  ;  that  perseverance 
in  holiness  is  the  only  method  of  making  our  calling 
and  election  sure  ;  and  that  the  final  perseverance  of 
saints,  though  it  is  the  effect  of  the  special  operation 
of  God  on  their  hearts,  necessarily  implies  their  own 
watchful  diligence  ;  that  they,  who  are  effectually  cal- 
led, do  in  this  life  partake  of  justification,  adoption, 
and  sanctification,  and  the  several  benefits,  which  do 
either  accompany  or  flow  from  them  ;  that  the  souls 
of  believers  are  at  their  death  made  perfect  in  holiness, 
and  do  immediately  pass  into  glory  ;  that  their  bodies, 
being  still  united  to  Christ,  will  at  the  resurrection 
be  raised  up  to  glor\^,  and  that  the  saints  will  be  made 
perfectly  blessed  in  the  full  enjoyment  of  God  to  all 
eternity  ;  but  that  the  wicked  will  awake  to  shame  and 
everlasting  contempt,  and  with  devils  be  plunged  into 
the  lake,  that  burneth  with  fire  and  brimstone  forever 


35 

and  ever.  I  moreover  believe  that  God, according  to 
the  counsel  of  his  own  will,  and  for  his  own  glory,  hath 
foreordained  whatsoever  comes  to  pass,  and  that  all 
beings,  actions,  and  events  both  in  the  natural  and 
moral  world  are  under  his  providential  direction  ;  that 
God's  decrees  perfectly  consist  with  human  liberty  ; 
God's  universal  agency  with  the  agency  of  man  ;  and 
man's  dependence  with  his  accountability  ;  that  man 
has  understanding  and  corporeal  strength  to  do  all,  that 
God  requires  of  him ;  so  that  nothing,  but  the  sinner's 
aversion  to  holiness,  prevents  his  salvation  ;  that  it  is 
the  prerogative  of  God  to  bring  good  out  of  evil,  and 
that  he  will  cause  the  wrath  and  rage  of  wicked  men 
and  devils  to  praise  him  ;  and  that  all  the  evil,  which 
has  existed,  and  which  will  forever  exist  in  the  moral 
system,  will  eventually  be  made  to  promote  a  most 
important  purpose  under  the  wise  and  perfect  adminis- 
tration of  that  Almighty  Being,  who  will  cause  all 
things  to  work  for  his  own  glory,  and  thus  fulfil  all  his 
pleasure.' 

Second.  That  the  trust  aforesaid  may  be  always 
executed  agreeably  to  the  true  intent  of  our  said  Foun- 
dation ;  and  that  we  may  effectually  guard  the  same, 
in  all  future  time,  against  all  perversion,  or  the  smal- 
lest avoidance  of  our  true  design,  as  therein  expres- 
sed— We  do  hereby  constitute  a  Board  of  Visitors, 
to  be,  as  in  our  place  and  stead,  the  Guardians,  Over- 
seers, and  Protectors  of  our  said  Foundation,  in  man- 
ner, as  is  expressed  in  the  following  provisions,  that  is 
to  say,  we  appoint  and  constitute  the  Honorable  Caleb 
Strong  Esquire  late  Governor  of  the  Commonwealth 


36 

of  Massachusetts,  the 'Reverend  Timothy  Dwight 
D.  D.  President  of  Yale  College,  and  the  Reverend 
Samuel  Spring  of  Newbury  port  Doctor  ofDivmity, 
Visitors  of  the  said  Foundation  ;  who  with  their 
successors  in  office,  to  be  chosen  as  herein  after  di- 
rected, shall  be  a  perpetual  body  for  this  purpose,  with 
all  the  powers  and  duties  in  them  herein  vested,  and  on 
them  enjoined  ;  but  we  do  nevertheless  reserve  to 
Samuel  Abbot,  one  of  the  subscribers,  the  right  of 
visiting,  in  connexion  with  the  said  Board,  and  during 
his  natural  life,  the  said  Foundation ;  and  we  do  more^ 
over  confer  on  Moses  Brown  and  William  Bart- 
let  Esquires  of  Newbury  Port,  and  the  Honorable 
John  Norris  Esquire  of  Salem,  the  Associate  Foun- 
ders above  named,  the  right  of  visiting  the  said  Foun- 
dation in  the  same  manner  with  the  said  Samuel  Ab- 
bot, during  their  natural  lives  respectively  ;  each  of 
the  said  four  Founders  so  long,  as  he  shall  retain  his 
seat  at  the  Board,  shall  possess  and  exercise  all  the 
rights  and  powers,  herein  given  to  a  Visitor  of  the  said 
Foundation  ;  though  upon  the  resignation  or  demise 
of  either  of  the  said  Founders,  his  place  shall  not  be 
supplied  by  election  of  a  Visitor  to  succeed  him ;  and, 
after  the  demise  or  resignation  of  the  said  four  persons, 
last  above  named  as  Founders,  the  said  Board  shall 
never  consist  of  more  than  three  members  ;  and  it  is 
farther  expressly  provided,  that  the  perpetual  Board  ol" 
Visitors,  first  herein  named,  shall  consist  of  two-  Cler- 
gymen and  one  Layman,  all  of  whom  shall  be  men  of 
distinguished  talents  and  piety. 


37 

Third.  We  do  farther  provide  and  ordain,  that 
lio  person  shall  be  eligible,  as  a  Visitor,  under  the  age 
of  forty  years  ;  nor  shall  any  person,  except  the  seven 
herein  just  named,  hold  the  office  of  Visitor  after  the 
age  of  seventy  years  ;  and  whenever,  with  the  excep- 
tion aforesaid,  any  Visitor  shall  have  completed  the 
sixty-ninth  year  of  his  age,  the  Board  shall,  within  the 
year  next  ensuing,  choose  some  suitable  person  to  suc- 
ceed him  ;  but  the  Visitor  elect  shall  not  take  his  seat 
at  the  Board,  before  his  said  Predecessor  shall  have 
completed  his  seventieth  year,  or  formally  resigned  his 
office  of  Visitor  ;  and  no  resignation  of  any  member 
at  an  earlier  age  shall  be  accepted  by  this  Board,  be- 
fore a  Successor  shall  have  been  chosen. 

Fourth.  The  Board  of  Visitors  shall  meet  on  the 
seventeenth  (Jay  of  May  current  at  Andover,  and  ever 
after  once  in  every  year  at  the  aforesaid  Theological 
Institution,  to  execute  the  business  of  their  appoint- 
ment, on  such  day,  as  they  shall  assign  ;  also  upon 
emergencies,  when  called  thereto,  as  herein  after  di- 
rected ;  and  a  majority  of  the  Visitors,  when  regularly 
convened,  shall  be  a  Quorum,  of  which  Quorum  a 
major  part  shall  have  power  to  transact  the  business  of 
their  Commission,  and  in  case  of  an  equivote,  the  ques- 
tion shall  determine  on  that  side,  on  which  the  presid- 
ing member  shall  have  voted. 

Fifth..  There  shall  be  annually  chosen  by  ballot 
a  President  and  Secretary,  as  officers  of  the  Board  out 
of  their  own  number,  who  shall  continue  in  their  res- 
pective offices,  till  their  places  be  supplied  by  new 


38 

elections,  and  upon  the  decease  of  either  of  them,  an- 
other shall  be  chosen  in  his  room  at  the  next  meeting. 

Sixth.  The  President,  or  in  case  of  his  death,  re- 
signation,  or  absence  from  the  country,  the  Secretary 
shall,  upon  all  necessary  occasions,  call  special  meet- 
ings of  the  Board  ;  and  his  notifications  shall  express 
the  business  to  be  transacted  at  such  meetings,  and  be 
given  as  early  as  possible  ;  and  in  the  absence  of  the 
President,  at  any  meeting,  the  Secretary  shall  preside. 

Seventh.  The  Secretary  shall  keep  a  fair  record 
of  all  the  transactions  of  the  Visitors  at  every  meeting 
of  the  Board,  inserting  the  names  of  the  members  pre- 
sent ;  and  in  his  absence  another  shall  be  appointed  in 
his  room. 

Eighth.  The  Visitors  shall  remove  any  member 
of  their  Board  for  immorality,  incapacity,  or  signal 
neglect  of  duty. 

Ninth.  Upon  the  death,  resignation,  or  removal 
of  a  Visitor,  (except  only  upon  the  demise  or  resigna- 
tion of  a  Founder)  the  Board  of  Visitors  shall  at  their 
next  meeting,  by  ballot,  elect  another  in  his  stead ;  and 
ever  after  from  time  to  time,  as  a  vacancy  shall  take 
place  in  this  Board,  they  shall  supply  it  ;  and  every 
person  so  elected,  previously  to  his  taking  his  seat  at 
the  Board,  shall  make  and  subscribe  the  following  De- 
claration, namely ;  "  Approving  the  Constitution  of  the 
"  Theological  Institution,  I  solemnly  declare  in  the 
**  presence  of  God  and  of  this  Board,  that  I  will  faith- 
*'  fully  exert  my  abilities  to  carry  into  execution  the 
"  Regulations  therein  contained,  and  to  promote  the 
"  great  object  of  the  Institution ;" — ^And  he  shall  more- 


39 

over  in  like  manner  subscribe  the  same  theological 
Creed,  which  every  Professor  elect  is  required  to  sub- 
scribe ;  and  a  declaration  of  his  faith  in  the  same  Creed 
shall  be  repeated  by  him  at  every  successive  period  of 
five  years  ;  and,  if  in  the  course  of  events  the  number 
of  Visitors  shall,  by  any  special  providence  of  Gqd,  be 
reduced  to  one,  the  remaining  Visitor  shall  have  power 
to  appoint  one  suitable  person  to  be  a  Visitor  of  the 
said  Foundation  ;  and  these  two  Visitors  shall  at  their 
first  regular  meeting  supply  the  remaining  vacancy  in 
the  Board. 

Tenth.  The  power  and  duties  of  the  Board  of 
Visitors,  thus  constituted  and  organized,  shall  be,  as 
follows,  namely,  to  visit  the  said  Foundation  once  in 
every  year,  and  at  other  times,  when  regularly  called 
thereto  ;  to  inquire  into  the  state  of  the  said  fund  and 
the  management  of  the  said  Foundation  \yith  respect 
to  the  said  Professor  ;  to  determine,  interpret,  and  ex- 
plain  the  statutes  of  the  said  Foundation  in  all  cases^ 
brought  before  them  in  their  judicial  capacity  ;  to  re- 
dress  grievances  with  respect  to  the  said  Professor  ;  to 
hear  appeals  from  decisions  of  the  Board  of  Trustees, 
and  to  remedy  upon  complaint,  duly  exhibited  in  be 
half  of  the  said  Professor  ;  to  review  and  reverse  any 
censure  passed  by  said  Trustees  upon  any  Professor 
on  said  Foundation  ;  to  declare  void  all  rules  and  re 
gulations,  made  by  the  said  Trustees,  relative  to  said 
Foundation,  which  may  be  inconsistent  with  the  origi- 
nal Statutes  thereof ;  to  take  care,  that  the  duties  of 
each  Professor  on  said  Foundation  be  intelligibly  and 
faithfully  discharged,  and  to  admonish  or  remove  him^ 


40 

either  for  misbeha^dour,  heterodoxy,  incapacity,  or 
neglect  of  the  duties  of  his  office  ;  and  in  general  to 
see  that  our  true  intentions  as  expressed  in  our  said 
Constitution  in  relation  to  said  Professor,  be  faithfully 
executed,  always  administering  justice  impartially,  and 
exercising  the  functions  of  their  office  in  the  fear  of 
God,  according  to  these  Regulations,  the  Provisions 
of  the  said  Constitution,  and  the  Laws  of  the  land. 

Eleventh.  Every  election  of  a  Professor  on  said 
Foundation  shall  within  ten  days  bc^presented  to  the 
Visitors  ;  who  are  hereby  vested  with  the  power  and 
right  of  approving  or  negativing,  at  a  regular  meeting, 
every  such  election.  But,  if  any  such  election  be  not 
thus  either  approved  or  negati^^ed  by  the  said  Visitors 
witliin  twelve  months  from  the  commencement  of  a 
vacancy  in  said  Professorship,  such  election  shall  be 
considered,  as  approved  by  the  Visitors,  and  shall  ac- 
cordingly be  deemed  constitutional  and  valid  ;  provid- 
ed always,  that  such  election  shall  have  been  regularly 
communicated  to  the  President  or  Secretary  of  the 
Boai'd  of  Visitors  ten  days  at  least  previously  to  the 
expiration  of  the  twelve  months  aforesaid. 

Twelfth.  The  Board  of  Visitors  in  all  their  pro- 
ceedings are  to  be  subject  to  our  Statutes  herein  ex- 
pressed, and  to  those  contained  in  our  said  Constitu- 
tion, and  to  conform  their  measures  accordingly ;  and, 
if  they  shall  at  any  time  act  contrary  thereto,  or  exceed 
the  limits  of  their  jurisdiction  and  constitutional  power, 
the  party  aggrieved  may  have  recourse  by  appeal  to 
the  Justices  of  the  Supreme  Judicial  Court  of  this 
Commonwealtli  for  the  time  being  for  remedy,  who 


41 

are  hereby  appointed  and  authorized  to  judge  in  such 
case,  and,  agreeably  to  the  determination  of  the  major 
part  of  them,  to  declare  null  and  void  any  decree  or 
sentence  of  the  said  Visitors,  which  upon  mature  con- 
sideration they  may  deem  contrary  to  the  said  Statutes, 
or  beyond  the  just  limits  of  their  power,  herein  pre- 
scribed ;  and  by  the  said  Justices  of  the  Supreme  Ju- 
dicial Court  for  the  time  being  shall  the  said  Board  of 
Visitors  at  all  times  be  subject  to  be  restrained  and 
corrected  in  the  undue  exercise  of  their  office. 

Thirteenth.  At  all  meetings  of  the  Visitors  de- 
cent entertainment  shall  be  made  by  direction  of  the 
Board,  and  at  the  expense  of  the  Foundation. 

Finally.  Commending  the  said  Institution  and 
all  concerned  in  the  management  thereof  to  the  blessing 
of  Heaven,  and  in  witness  of  what  is  contained  in  this 
and  the  preceding  pages,  we  hereunto  set  our  hands 
and  seals,  this  third  day  of  May  in  the  year  of  our 
Lord,  one  thousand  eight  hundred  and  eight. 

SAMUEL  ABBOT,  (S.) 
PHCEBE  PHILLIPS,  (S.) 
JOHN  PHILLIPS,  Jun.  (S.) 

Signed,  sealed,  and  delivered 
in  presence  of  us, 

MOSES  WOOD, 

AMOS  BLANCHARD. 


PREFACE  OF  THE  ASSOCIATE  STATUTES. 


The  interesting  object  now  before  us  requires  serious 
and  impartial  consideration.  The  open  volume  of  na- 
ture is  full  of  divine  instruction  ;  but,  destitute  of  the 
more  luminous  volume  of  inspiration,  the  whole  world 
must  have  remained  in  pagan  darkness  and  supersti- 
tion. Both  the  present  and  past  state  of  heathen  na- 
tions manifestly  evinces  the  necessity  of  special  revela- 
tion. It  is  the  word  of  God  ;  it  is  the  gospel  of 
Christ,  which  in  the  course  of  divine  administration 
makes  the  moral  difference  between  rude  pagans  and 
devout  Christians.  What  benevolent  mind,  while  con-, 
templating  the  superior  advantages  of  the  church,  does 
not  weep  over  the  millions  of  ignorant  men,  who  are 
perishing  for  lack  of  vision  ?  What  Cliristian  does  not 
commisserate  the  destitute  in  all  sections  of  the  globe, 
and  devoutly  pray  that,  agreeably  to  Christ's  injunc- 
tion, the  gospel  may  soon  be  preached  to  every  crea- 
ture ?  How  long,  alas,  shall  the  greatest  part  of  the 
human  race  remain  unacquainted  with  the  gospel  ! 
How  long  shall  they  continue  unbelievers  !  "  But  how 
shall  they  believe  in  him,  of  whom  they  have  not 
heard  ?  And  how  shall  they  hear  without  a  preacher  ? 
And  how  shall  they  preach,  except  they  be  sent  ?" 
And  how  can  preachers  be  consistently  sent,  unless 


44 

properly  qualified  ?    And,  at  this  day  of  increasing  er- 
ror and  delusion,  how  can  they  acquire  proper  qualifi- 
cations to  stem  the  torrent  of  infidelity  and  corruption, 
unless  furnished  with  greater  theological  advantages, 
than  have  been  generally  enjoyed  in  our  country  ?  The 
numerous  obstacles,  which  some  eminent  men  have 
laboriously  surmounted,  in  qualifying  themselves  for 
the  sacred  office,  and  the  numerous  difficulties,  which 
others  have  been  unable  to  remove,  present  a  powerful 
argument  for  the  establishment  of  a  Theological  Insti- 
tution.    The  church  at  this  day  of  boasted  light,  though 
in  reality  a  day  of  great  moral  darkness,  spreads  forth 
her  trembling  hands,  and  in  plaintive  accents  asks  for 
help.     She  greatly  needs  and  urgently  requests  more 
able  candidates,  missionaries,  and  pastors  ;  and  shall 
her  pressing  request,  supported  by  the  Lord  of  the 
harvest,  be  disregarded  ?    Is  it  not  an  impressive,  hu- 
miliating consideration,  that  many  young  men  are  in- 
ducted into  the  sacred  office,  who  are  furnished  with 
much  less  appropriate  information,  than  is  reputable, 
or  admissible  in  the  other  learned  professions  ?  To  the 
lasting  honor  of  the  bar  and  of  the  medical  faculty  they 
neither  admit,  nor  recognize  any,  except  men  of  talents 
and  erudition.     Property  and  health  are  deemed  too 
precious  to  be  trusted  in  the  hands  of  weakness  or 
ignorance.     But  what  is  the  value  of  property,  health, 
or  life,  compared  with  that  of  immortal  souls  ?    Alas, 
shall  the  pulpit  sigh  and  groan  ?    Shall  infidels  sneer 
and  triumph  ?  And  shall  Satan  take  advantage  of  heed- 
less sinners,  because  authorised  teachers  depreciate  the 
gospel  by  their  inability   to  defend  it  ?   God  forbid  ! 


45 

The  priests'  lips  should  keep  knowledge,  and  the  am- 
bassadors of  Christ  in  their  official  capacity  ought  not 
to  be  inferior  to  the  ambassadors  of  temporal  princes. 
Their  office  is  sacred,  and  involves  much  higher  res- 
ponsibility. They  plead  and  administer  for  Christ 
and  immortal  souls.  They  stand  between  heaven  and 
earth,  and  must  be  qualified  to  honor  God  by  correct- 
ly delivering  his  message  to  man.  Who  is  sufficient 
for  these  things  ?  Who  can  render  to  God  the  things, 
that  are  God's,  and  rightly  divide  the  word  of  truth  to 
the  different  classes  of  men,  unless  properly  qualified? 
But  by  what  eligible,  effectual  measure  can  ministerial 
and  evangelical  influence  be  reclaimed  and  supported  ? 
How  can  devout  candidates  most  successfully  acquire 
theological  reputation  ?  By  what  means  can  they  be 
qualified  to  magnify  the  pastoral  office  ?  The  question 
is  highly  interesting  to  Zion  and  the  souls  of  men. 
The  answer  is  ready,  if  not  anticipated.  By  gratuitous 
theological  establishments  they  must  have  ample  op- 
portunity and  advantages  to  pursue  their  studies.  Up- 
on due  reflection  this  appears  a  correct  expedient,  and 
the  best  measure,  that  can  be  adopted  at  the  present 
day.  Merely  to  glance  at  the  deep  and  sublime  things 
of  divinity  six  months,  or  a  year,  is  not  sufficient  to 
qualify  young  men  for  the  gospel  ministry.  To  fill 
the  pastoral  office  with  dignity  and  utility,  by  wisely- 
unfolding  and  applying  the  truth  to  saints  and  sinners, 
much  previous  study  and  information  are  requisite. 
Three  years  unwearied  application  to  theology,  which 
is  only  half  the  term  required  by  the  church  of  Scot- 
land,  is   barely  sufficient.      The   extensive   field   of 


46 

divinity,  so  full  of  hidden  treasures,  cannot  be  duly 
explored  by  young  men  of  piety  and  ability  within  a 
shorter  term.  And  what  youth,  of  genius  and  grace 
can  more  profitably  employ  his  time  ?  No  considerate 
young  man,  who  wishes  to  spend  his  life  in  dispensing 
ti'uth  to  others,  will  think  three  years  too  long  for  lay- 
ing the  foundation  of  theological  science.  To  those, 
who  desire  to  excel  in  doing  good,  the  term  will  ap- 
pear but  a  few  days. 

The  common  embarrassments  of  theological  Stu- 
dents, the  pressing  and  imperious  demand  for  qualified 
laborers  to  reap  the  extensive  and  increasing  harvest, 
which  opens  before  us,  compel  us  to  contemplate  the 
necessity  and  utility  of  a  gratuitous  theological  Institu- 
tion. To  raise  up  a  long  and  uninterrupted  succession 
of  able,  devout  ministers  for  the  defense  of  the  gos- 
pel, to  adorn  the  church,  and  to  honor  Christ,  by 
cooperating  with  him  in  reclaiming  sinners,  is  the  true 
design  of  the  Institution. 

Motives  to  unite  the  hearts  of  all  devout  and  orthodox 
men  in  promoting  the  interest  of  the  Institution  are 
numerous.  The  daring  strides,  made  at  the  present 
day  by  infidels  and  other  erroneous  men  ;  the  urgent 
necessity  of  a  learned  and  pious  ministr}^,  to  check  and 
countervail  their  dangerous  influence,  is  no  inferior 
motive  to  combine  the  efforts  of  all  the  faithful.  But 
there  are  other  considerations  equally  impressive.  For 
is  it  not  worthy  of  grateful  notice,  that  the  concurrent 
events  of  the  present  period  induce  a  belief,  that  the 
set  time  to  build  up  Zion  is  at  hand  ?  If  we  do  not 
greatly  mistake  the  import  of  prophecy  and  correspond- 


47 

ing  events,  we  live  near  the  termination  of  the  dark- 
ness^  which  has  long  enveloped  the  church  and  the 
world  ;  and  as  near  the  commencement  of  Zion's 
permanent  prosperity  and  glory.  The  numerous  mis- 
sionary and  humane  Institutions,  lately  established  and 
crowned  with  signal  success,  are  indications,  that 
Christ  is  preparing  the  way  for  the  millenial  ex- 
pression of  his  benevolence.  Shall  we  therefore  see 
his  star  in  the  east  ?  Shall  we  behold  the  glorious  Re- 
deemer coming  to  collect  the  precious  fruits  of  the 
cross  ?  Shall  the  Lord  of  the  harvest  call  for  able  and 
faithful  laborers  ;  and  shall  we  not  concur  with  his 
gracious  requisition  ?  Surely  a  wide  and  effectual  door 
is  open  to  do  good.  And  shall  we  disregard  the  mani- 
fest call  of  Providence  ?  If  we  withhold  our  exertions, 
deliverance  will  arise  to  the  church  from  some  other 
quarter  ;  for  God  will  build  up  Zion,  and  appear  in 
his  glory. 

The  Theological  Institution  we  consider,  as  the  re- 
sidence of  Christian  love  and  harmony,  and  the  resi- 
dence, we  hope,  of  the  Sun  of  Righteousness,  who  will 
make  it  a  light  of  the  church,  and  a  distinguished  lu- 
minary in  our  hemisphere. 

Finally,  while  we  survey  the  gloomy  state  of  the 
church  and  the  world,  in  connexion  with  the  numerous 
embarrassments  and  disadvantages,  under  which  theo- 
logical students  labor,  while  qualifying  themselves  for 
the  ministry ;  we  cannot  but  hail  the  rising  Institution ; 
which  will  afford  the  indigent  opportunity  to  pursue 
their  studies  several  years  without  expense  ;  and  will 
readily  embrace  those,  who  choose  to  defray  the  ex- 


48 

pense  of  their  theological  education.  Under  the  pat- 
ronage of  Christ,  to  whom  the  Institution  is  dedicat- 
ed, we  cannot  but  entertain  a  pleasing  hope,  that  it 
will  flourish  ;  and  that  it  will  meet  the  cordial  appro- 
bation of  well  informed  Christians,  and  realize  the  in- 
effable benefit  of  their  devout  and  persevering  prayers. 


i 


THE 

STATUTES 

OF    THE 

ASSOCIATE    FOUNDATION 

IN    THE 

THEOLOGICAL  INSTITUTION 

IN 

ANDOFER. 


Seriously  reflecting  upon  the  fatal  eiFects  of  the 
apostasy  of  man  without  a  Savior,  on  the  merciful  ob- 
ject of  the  Son  of  God  in  assuming  our  nature  and 
dying  for  our  salvation,  and  upon  the  wisdom  of  his 
appointment  of  an  order  of  men  to  preach  his  Gospel 
in  the  world  ;  considering  also  that,  notwithstanding 
this  appointment,  by  far  the  greatest  part  of  the  human 
race  is  still  perishing  for  lack  of  vision,  and  that  even 
in  countries,  where  the  Gospel  is  enjoyed,  infidelity, 
error,  and  immorality  greatly  abound  ;  feeling  it  to  be 
our  duty  to  conspire  with  the  benevolent  design  of  this 
appointment,  and  being  desirous  of  contributing  ac- 
cording to  our  ability  toward  its  success,  and  of  ex- 
pressing in  this  imperfect  manner  our  sense  of  obliga- 
tion to  our  compassionate  Redeemer  ;  We,  Moses 
Brown  and  William  Bartlet,  both  of  Newbury 
Port,  Merchants,  and  John  Norris  of  Salem  Esquire^ 


50 

ail  of  the  County  of  Essex  and  Commonwealth  of  Mas- 
sachusetts, being  mfluenced,  as  we  hope,  by  a  princi- 
ple of  gratitude  to  God  and  benevolence  to  man,  have 
determined  to  devote  a  part  of  the  substance,  with 
which  Heaven  has  blessed  us,  to  the  defense  and  pro- 
motion of  the  Christian  Religion,  by  making  some 
provision  for  increasing  the  number  of  learned  and  able 
Defenders  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  as  well,  as  of  or- 
thodox, pious,  and  zealous  Ministers  of  the  New  Tes- 
tament  ;  and  we  do  accordingly  hereby  give,  assign, 
and  setover  to  the  Trustees  of  Phillips  Academy, 
and  to  their  successors  in  office,  the  sum  of  ten  thou- 
sand dollars  each,  amounting  to  thirty  thousand  dol- 
lars; to  which  sum  I  William  Bartlet  add  the 
farther  sum  of  ten  thousand  dollars,*  for  the  purpose 
of  supporting  one  of  the  two  Professors,  herein  after 
named,  the  whole  amounting  to  forty  thousand  dollars, 
in  Sacred  Trust,  as  a  capital  Fund,  to  be  disposed 
of  in  the  manner  and  for  the  purposes  following  ;  that 
is  to  say,  the  said  sum  of  money  to  be  kept  out  at  in- 
terest on  good  security,  or  otherwise  in  whole  or  in 
part  vested,  as  the  said  Trustees  shall  deem  best,  in 
productive  real  estate,  or  in  sure  and  permanent  funds  ; 
and  the  interest  or  annual  income  of  said  capital  Fund 
to  be  applied  to  the  maintenance  of  two  Professors  m 
the  Theological  Institution  or  Seminary,  late- 
ly founded  in  the  Town  of  Andover,  and  County  afore -= 
said  ;  who  shall,  agreeably  to  the  permanent  Creed, 
herein  after  mentioned,  faithfully  teach  that  revealed 

*  To  this  sum  an  addition  of  ten  thousand  dollars  has  been  made  by 
the  Founder  since  the  execution  of  these  Statutes. 


51 

Holy  Religion  only,  which  God  constantly  teaches  maia 
by  his  glorious  works  of  Creation,  Providence,  and 
Redemption  ;  whose  professional  duties  shall  be  as- 
signed, according  to  the  Constitution  of  the  Seminary, 
in  such  manner,  as  shall  most  directly  and  effectually 
promote  the  great  object  of  the  Institution  ;  reserv- 
ing to  ourselves  the  right  jointly  to  make  the  first  ap- 
pointment of  one  of  the  said  Professors,  and  to  the  said 
William  Bartlet  severally,  the  right  to  make  the 
first  appointment  of  the  other  of  the  said  Professors  ; 
and  also  toward  the  maintenance  of  such  Students  in 
Divinity,  as  may  be  proper  candidates  for  gratuitous 
support,  and  shall  be  approved  and  recommended  by 
the  Board  of  Visitors,  herein  after  constituted,  or  by  a 
committee  of  their  appointment,  agreeably  to  the  fol- 
lowing Statutes,  namely. 

First.  The  Fund  aforesaid  shall  be  kept  distinct 
from  all  other  property,  to  the  same  Trustees  belong- 
ing, being  never  blended  therewith  by  loan  or  purchase ; 
and  their  Treasurer  shall  accordingly  keep  all  accounts 
relative  thereto  in  distinct  books,  and  all  monies,  evi- 
dences of  property,  receipts,  papers,  and  books  of  ac- 
count, appertaining  to  said  Fund,  in  a  trunk,  or  chest, 
prepared  for  prompt  removal. 

Second.  Every  Professor  on  the  Associate 
Foundation  shall  be  a  Master  of  Arts,  of  the  Pro- 
testant Reformed  Religion,  an  ordained  Minister  of  the 
Congregational  or  Presbyterian  denomination,  and  shall 
sustain  the  character  of  a  discreet,  honest,  learned,  and 
devout  Christian  ;  an  orthodox  and  consistent  Calvin- 
ist ;  and,  after  a  careful  examination  by  the  Visitors 


52 

with  reference  to  his  religious  principles,  he  shall,  on 
the  day  of  his  inauguration,  publicly  make  and  sub- 
scribe a  solemn  declaration  of  his  faith  in  Divine  Re- 
velation, and  in  the  fundamental  and  distinguishing 
doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  as  expressed  in  the  following 
Creed,  which  is  supported  by  the  infallible  Revelation, 
which  God  constantly  makes  of  Himself  in  his  works 
of  creation,  providence,  and  redemption  ;  namely, 

I  believe  that  there  is  one  and  but  one  living  and  true 
God  ;  that  the  word  of  God,  contained  in  the  Scrip- 
tures of  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  is  the  only  per- 
fect rule  of  faith  and  practice  ;  that  agreeably  to  those 
Scriptures  God  is  a  Spirit,  infinite,  eternal,  and  un- 
changeable in  his  being,  wisdom,  power,  holiness,  jus- 
tice, goodness,  and  truth  ;  that  in  the  Godhead  arc 
three  Persons,  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy 
Ghost  ;  am^  that  these  Three  are  One  God,  the 
same  in  substance,  equal  in  power  and  glory  ;  that 
God  created  man  after  his  own  image  in  knowledge, 
righteousness,  and  holiness  ;  tliat  the  glory  of  God  is 
man's  chief  end,  and  the  enjoyment  of  God  his  su- 
preme happiness ;  that  this  enjoyment  is  derived  solely 
from  conformity  of  heart  to  the  moral  character  and 
will  of  Go  D  ;  that  Adam,  the  federal  head  and  repre- 
sentative of  the  human  race,  was  placed  in  a  state  of 
probation,  and  that  in  consequence  of  his  disobedience 
all  his  descendants  were  constituted  sinners  ;  that  by 
nature  every  man  is  personally  depraved,  destitute  of 
holiness,  unlike  and  opposed  to  God,  and  that  pre- 
viously to  the  renewing  agency  of  the  Divine  Spirit 
all  his  moral  actions  are  adverse  to  the  character  and 


53 

glory  of  God  ;  that,  being  morally  incapable  of  re- 
covering the  image  of  his  Creator,  which  was  lost  in 
Adam,  every  man  is  justly  exposed  to  eternal  damna- 
tion ;  so  that,  except  a  man  be  bom  again,  he  cannot 
see  the  kingdom  of  God  ;  that  God,  of  his  mere  good 
pleasure,  from  all  eternity  elected  some  to  everlasting 
life,  and  that  he  entered  into  a  covenant  of  grace  to 
deliver  them  out  of  this  state  of  sin  and  misery  by  a 
Redeemer  ;  that  ttie  only  Redeemer  of  the  elect  is 
the  eternal  Son  of  God,  who  for  this  purpose  became 
man,  and  continues  to  be  God  and  man  in  two  distinct 
natures  and  one  person  forever  ;  that  Christ,  as  our 
Redeemer,  executeth  the  office  of  a  Prophet,  Priest, 
and  King  ;  that,  agreeably  to  the  covenant  of  redemp- 
tion, the  Son  of  God,  and  he  alone,  by  his  suffering 
and  death,  has  made  atonement  for  the  sins  of  all  men ; 
that  repentance,  faith,  and  holiness  are  the  personal  re- 
quisites in  the  Gospel  scheme  of  salvation  ;  that  the 
righteousness  of  Christ  is  the  only  ground  of  a  sin- 
ner's justification  ;  that  this  righteousness  is  received 
through  faith  ;  and  that  this  faith  is  the  gift  of  God  ; 
so  that  our  salvation  is  wholly  of  grace  ;  that  no  means 
whatever  can  change  the  heart  of  a  sinner  and  make  it 
holy  ;  that  regeneration  and  sanctification  are  effects  of 
the  creating  andrenewingagency  of  theHoLY  Spirit, 
and  that  supreme  love  to  God  constitutes  the  essential 
difference,  between  saints  and  simiers  ;  that  by  con- 
vincing us  of  our  sin  and  misery,  enlightening  our 
minds,  working  faith  in  us,  and  renewing  our  v/ills, 
the  Holy  Spirit  makes  us  partakers  of  the  benefits 
of  redemption  ;  and  that  the  ordinary  means,  by  which 


54 

these  benefits  are  communicated  to  us,  are  the  word, 
sacraments,  and  prayer ;  that  repentance  unto  life,  faith 
to  feed  upon  Christ,  love  to  God,  and  new  obedience, 
ai'e  the  appropriate  qualifications  for  the  Lord's  sup- 
per ;  and  th^t  a  Christian  Church  ought  to  admit  no 
person  to  its  holy  communion,  before  he  exhibit  credi- 
ble evidence  of  his  godly  sincerity  ;  that  perseverance 
in  holiness  is  the  only  method  of  making  our  calling 
and  election  sure  ;  and  that  the  final  perseverance  of 
saints,  though  it  is  the  effect  of  the  special  operation 
of  God  on  their  hearts,  necessarily  implies  their  own 
watchful  diligence  ;  that  they,  who  are  effectually  cal- 
led, do  in  this  life  partake  of  justification,  adoption, 
and  sanctification,  and  the  several  benefits,  which  do 
either  accompany  or  flow  from  them  ;  that  the  souls 
of  believers  are  at  their  death  made  perfect  in  holiness, 
and  do  immediately  pass  into  glory  ;  that  their  bodies, 
being  still  united  to  Christ,  will  at  the  resurrection 
be  raised  up  to  glory,  and  that  the  saints  will  be  made 
perfectly  blessed  in  the  full  enjoyment  of  God  to  all 
eternity  ;  but  that  the  wicked  will  awake  to  shame  and 
everlasting  contempt,  and  with  devils  be  plunged  into 
the  lake,  that  burneth  with  fire  and  brimstone  forever 
and  ever.  I  moreover  believe  that  God,  according  to 
the  counsel  of  his  own  will,  and  for  his  own  glory,  hath 
foreordained  whatsoever  comes  to  pass,  and  that  all 
beings,  actions,  and  events,  both  in  the  natural  and 
moral  world,  are  under  liis  providential  direction ;  that 
God's  decrees  perfectly  consist  witli  human  liberty; 
God's  universal  agency  with  the  agency  of  man  ;  and 
man's  dependence  with  his  accountability  ;  that  man 


55 

has  understanding  and  corporeal  strength  to  do  all,  that 
God  requires  of  him ;  so  that  nothing,  but  the  sinner's 
aversion  to  holiness,  prevents  his  salvation  ;   that  it  is 
the  prerogative  of  God  to  bring  good  out  of  evil,  and 
that  he  will  cause  the  wrath  and  rage  of  wicked  men 
and  devils  to  praise  him  ;  and  that  all  the  evil,  which 
has  existed,  and  which  will  forever  exist  in  the  moral 
system,  will  eventually  be  made  to  promote  a  most 
important  purpose  under  the  wise  and  perfect  adminis- 
tration of  that  Almighty  Being,  who  will  cause  all 
things  to  work  for  his  own  glory,  and  thus  fulfil  all  his 
pleasure. — And  farthermore  Ido  solemnly  promise  that 
I  will  open  and  explain  the  Scriptures  to  my  pupils 
with  integrity  and  faithfulness  ;    that  I  will  maintain 
and  inculcate  the  Christian  faith,  as  expressed  in  the 
Creed,  by  me  now  repeated,  together  with  all  the  other 
doctrines  and  duties  of  our  holy  religion,  so  far  as  may 
appertain  to  my  office,  according  to  the  best  light,  God 
shall  give  me,  and  in  opposition,  not  only  to  Atheists 
and  Infidels,  but  to  Jews,  Papists,  Mahometans,  Arians, 
Pelagians,    Antinomians,    Arminians,    Socinians,    Sa- 
bellians.  Unitarians,    and    Universalists,    and    to    all 
heresies  and  errors,  antient  or  modem,  which  may  be 
opposed  to  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  or  hazardous  to  the 
souls  of  men  ;    that  by  my  instruction,  counsel,  and 
example,  I  will  endeavour  to  promote  true  Piety  and 
Godliness  >  that  I  will  consult  the  good  of  this  Institu- 
tion, and  the  peace  of  the  Churches  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  on  all  occasions  ;  and  that  I  will  religiously  con- 
form to  the  Constitution  and  Laws  of  this  Seminary, 
and  to  the  Statutes  of  this  Foundation. 


56 

Third.  The  preceding  Creed  and  Declaration  shali 
be  repeated  by  every  Professor  on  this  Foundation  at 
the  expiration  of  every  successive  period  of  five  years ; 
and  no  man  shall  be  continued  a  Professor  on  said 
Foundation,  vi^ho  shall  not  continue  to  approve  himself 
a  man  of  sound  and  orthodox  principles  in  Divinity 
agreeably  to  the  aforesaid  Creed. 

Fourth.  Professors  on  this  Foundation  shall  be 
allowed  an  honorable  maintenance,  regulated,  as  cir- 
cumstances may  require,  by  the  current  prices  of  the 
necessaries  of  life,  agreeably  to  original  contract. 

Fifth.     It  is  required,  that  every  public  lecture  be 
preceded  and  followed  by  prayer  ;  that  the  Associate 
Professors  in  their  preaching  to  the  Students  of  the 
Institution  on  the  Lord's  Day  be   devout,  practical, 
doctrinal,  and  pungent,    rather  than   speculative   and 
metaphysical  ;    and  no  Professor  on  this  Foundation 
shall  ever  preach  for  hire,  or  take  the  pastoral  charge 
of  any  church  or  congregation.     And  it  is  farthermore 
expected,  that  the  Professors  on  this  Foundation  will 
faithfully  devote  their  time  and  talents,  to  qualify  their 
pupils  for  able  ministers  of  the  Gospel.     Beside,  there- 
fore, guiding  them  in  the  peaceful  ways  of  wisdom  and 
discretion  by  christian  precept  and  example,  directing 
the  course  of  their  reading  the  Scriptures  and  other  in- 
sti'uctive  books,    critically    inspecting  and  correcting 
their  theological  compositions,  and  teaching  them  the 
appropriate  style  and  manner  of  pulpit  address,  it  is 
confidently  expected,  that  the  Professors  confer  with 
tliem  freely  and  frequently  on  those  subjects,  which  are 
calculated  to  expand  and  enrich  the  minds  and  hearts 


57 

of  theological  Students,  and  prepare  them  for  the  work 
of  the  Ministry. 

Sixth.  Upon  the  death,  resignation,  or  removal  of 
a  Professor  on  this  Foundation,  a  successor  shall  be 
chosen  by  the  Trustees  aforesaid  within  .six  months, 
and  the  choice  presented  to  the  Visitors  for  their  appro- 
bation. But,  if  this  choice  be  negatived,  another  elec- 
tion shall  in  like  manner  be  presented,  and  toties  quoties, 
till  an  election  be  made,  which  shall  be  approved  by  the 
Visitors ;  and  this  within  twelve  months  from  the  com- 
mencement of  a  vacancy  in  either  of  the  said  Profes- 
sorships. 

Seventh.  All  Applicants  for  the  advantages  of 
this  Foundation  shall  be  introduced  by  letters  of  recom- 
mendation  from  devout  and  influential  characters,  and 
shall  exhibit  satisfactory  evidence  of  their  distinguish- 
ed abilities  and  gracious  sincerity  ;  and  by  an  exam- 
ination in  the  learned  languages  shall  evince  that  in 
these  respects  they  are  qualified  to  enter  upon  theologi- 
cal studies. 

Eighth.  Every  Applicant,  after  examination  by 
the  standing  Committee,  to  be  appointed  as  herein  af- 
ter provided,  and  after  reading  the  Constitution  of  the 
Seminary  and  the  Statutes  of  the  Associate  Founders, 
shall  make  and  subscribe  the  following  Declaration, 
viz,  'Deeply  impressed  with  the  importance  of  an  ex- 
'  tensive  fund  of  knowledge  and  prudence  to  the  minis- 
'  terial  character,  and  of  being  correctly  instructed  in 
'the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  and  consequently  of  at- 
'  tending  a  regular  course  of  theological  education,  1 
solemnly  promise,  by  the  aid  of  divine  grace,  to  im- 


58 

'  prove  in  a  faithful  and  christian  manner  the  advanta- 
^  ges,  furnished  by  this  Institution  ;  and  to  be  uniiorm- 
'-  ly  subject  to  the  authority  and  laws  of  the  same,  with 
^  a  single  view  to  my  being  qualified  for  the  Gospel 
'Ministr}^' 

Ninth.  Strict  and  devout  attention  to  the  Sabbath 
and  all  stated  solemnities  is  required  of  the  Associate 
Students  ;  and  every  neglect  of  the  means  of  grace  or 
religious  improvement  will  be  duly  noticed  by  the 
Professors- 

Tenth.  It  is  strictly  enjoined  upon  the  Associate 
Students,  to  treat  the  Professors,  Trustees,  and  Visitors 
with  -iue  respect  ;  and  each  other  and  all  persons  with 
friendship  and  decorum ;  any  failure  in  these  and  simi- 
lar instances  will  be  deemed  censurable  ;  and,  if  per- 
sisted in,  a  forfeiture  of  the  privileges  of  the  Institu- 
tion. 

Eleventh.  Tuition  and  room  shall  be  gratis  to 
all  approved  Applicants  and  Students  on  this  Founda- 
tion ;  and  other  gratuitous  aid,  such  as  diet,  fuel,  light, 
washing,  and  lodging,  shall  be  granted  in  whole  or  in 
part,  according  to  the  direction  of  the  Visitors,  and  as 
the  state  of  the  said  Funds  may  permit  ;  and  no  Stu- 
dent in  the  Seminary  may  ever  be  charged  for  the  In- 
struction of  any  Professor  on  our  Foundation. 

Twelfth.  That  the  Trust  aforesaid  may  be  always 
executed  agreeably  to  the  true  intent  of  this  our  Foun- 
dation ;  and  that  we  may  effectually  guard  the  same 
in  all  future  time  against  all  perversion,  or  the  smal- 
lest avoidance  of  our  true  design,  as  herein  expres- 
sed ;  we,  the  aforesaid  Founders,  do  hereby  constitute 


^ 


59 

a  board  of  Visitors,  to  be  as  in  our  place  and  stead 
the  Guardians,   Overseers,  and  Protectors  of  this  our 
Foundation  in  manner,  as  is  expressed  in  the  follow- 
ing Provisions,  that  is  to  say,  We  appoint  and  consti- 
tute the  Honorable  Caleb  Strong  Esquire,  late  Gov- 
ernor   of   the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts,    the 
Reverend  Timothy  Dwight   D.  D.    President    of 
Yale  College,  and  the  Reverend  Samuel  Spring  of 
Newbury  Port  aforesaid  Doctor  of  Divinity,  Visitors 
of  the  said  Foundation  ;  who,  with  their  successors  m 
office  to  be  chosen,  as  herein  after  directed,  shall  be  a 
perpetual  body  for  this  purpose,  widi  all  the  powers  and 
duties  in  them  herein  vested  and  on  them  enjoined  ; 
but  we  do  nevertheless  reserve  to  ourselves  the  right 
of  visiting  in  connexion  with  the  said  Board,  and  dur- 
ing our  natural  lives  respectively,  this  our  Foundation. 
And  we  do  moreover  confer  on  Samuel  Abbot  Es- 
quire,* one  of  the  Founders  of  the  Theological  Insti- 
tution aforesaid,  the  right  of  visiting  this  our  Founda- 
tion in  the  same  manner  with  ourselves,  during  his  na- 
tural life  ;  each  of  the  said  four  Founders  so  long,  as 
he  shall  retain  his  seat  at  the  Board,  shall  possess  and 
exercise  all  the  rights  and  powers,  herein  given  to  a 
Visitor  of  this  Foundation  ;  though  upon  the  resigna- 
tion or  demise  of  either  of  the  said  Founders  his  place 
shall  not  be  supplied  by  election  of  a  Visitor  to  succeed 
him ;  and  after  the  demise  or  resignation  of  the  said 
four  persons,  last  above  named  as  Founders,  the  Said 
Board  shall  never  consist  of  more  than  three  members ; 

Who  had  previously  resigned  his  seat  at  the  Board  of  Trustees. 


60 

and  it  is  farther  expressly  provided,  that  the  perpetual 
Board  of  Visitors,  first  herein  named,  shall  consist  of 
two  Clergymen  and  one  Layman,  all  of  whom  shall  be 
men  of  distinguished  talents  and  piety. 

Thirteenth.  We  do  farther  provide  and  ordain  that 
no  person  shall  be  eligible,  as  a  Visitor,  under  the  age 
of  forty  years  ;  nor  shall  any  person,  except  the  seven 
herein  just  named,  hold  the  office  of  Visitor  after  the 
age  of  seventy  years  ;  and  whenever,  with  the  excep- 
tion aforesaid,  any  Visitor  shall  have  completed  the 
sixty-ninth  year  of  his  age,  the  Board  shall,  within  the 
year  next  ensuing  choose  some  suitable  person  to  suc- 
ceed him  ;  but  the  Visitor  elect  shall  not  take  his  seat 
at  the  Board,  before  his  said  Predecessor  shall  have 
completed  his  seventieth  year,  or  formally  resigned  his 
office  of  Visitor  ;  and  no  resignation  of  any  member 
at  an  earlier  age  shall  be  accepted  by  this  Board,  be^, 
fore  a  Successor  shall  have  been  chosen. 

Fourteenth.  The  Board  of  Visitors  shall  meet  on 
the  seventeenth  day  of  May  next  at  Andover,  and  ever 
after,  once  in  every  year,  at  the  aforesaid  Theolog- 
ical Institution,  to  execute  the  business  of  their 
appointment,  on  such  day,  as  they  shall  assign  ;  also 
upon  emergencies,  when  called  thereto,  as  herein  after 
directed  ;  and  a  majority  of  the  Visitors,  when  regular- 
ly convened,  shall  be  a  Quo?^um,  of  which  Quorum  a 
major  part  shall  have  power  to  transact  the  business  of 
their  Commission ;  and  in  case  of  an  equi-vote,  the  ques- 
tion shall  determine  on  that  side,  on  which  the  presid- 
ing member  shall  have  voted. 


61 

Fifteenth.  There  shall  be  annually  chosen,  by 
ballot,  a  President  and  Secretary,  as  Officers  of  the 
Board,  out  of  their  own  number  ;  who  shall  continue 
in  their  respective  offices,  till  their  places  be  supplied 
by  new  elections  ;  and,  upon  the  decease  of  either  of 
them,  another  shall  be  chosen  in  his  room  at  the  next 
meeting. 

S I X  T  E  E-N  T  H .  The  President,  or  in  case  of  his  death, 
resignation,  or  absence  from  the  country,  the  Secretary, 
shall,  upon  all  necessary  occasions,  call  special  meet- 
ings of  the  Board  ;  and  his  notifications  shall  express 
the  business  to  be  transacted  at  such  meetings,  and  be 
given  as  early  as  possible.  In  the  absence  of  the  Pre- 
sident, at  any  meeting,  the  Secretary  shall  preside. 

Seventeenth.  The  Secretary  shall  keep  a  fair  re- 
cord of  all  the  transactions  of  the  Visitors  at  every 
meeting  of  the  Board,  inserting  the  names  of  the  mem- 
bers present  ;  and  in  his  absence  another  shall  be  ap- 
pointed in  his  room. 

Eighteenth.  The  Visitors  shall  remove  any  Mem- 
ber of  their  Board  for  immorality,  incapacity,  or  ne- 
glect of  duty. 

Nineteenth.  Upon  the  death,  resignation,  or  re- 
moval of  a  Visitor,  except  only  upon  the  demise  or  re- 
signation of  a  Founder,  the  Board  of  Visitors  shall  at 
their  next  meeting,  by  ballot,  elect  another  in  his  stead ; 
and  ever  after,  from  time  to  time,  as  a  vacancy  shall  take 
place  in  this  Board,  they  shall  supply  it  ;  and  every 
person  so  elected,  previously  to  taking  his  seat  at  the 
Board,  shall  make  and  subscribe  the  following  D  e  c  l  a  r  - 


62 

ATioN,  namely,  '  Approving  the  Statutes  of  the  afore- 

*  said  Theological  Institution,  and  those  of  the   Asso- 
'  ciate  Founders,  I  solemnly  declare,  in  the  presence 

*  of  God  and  of  this  Board,  that  I  will  faithfully  exert 

*  my  abilities  to  carry  into  execution  the  Statutes  of 

*  the  said  Founders,  and  to  promote  the  great  object 
^  of  the  Institution.'  And  he  shall  moreover  in  like 
manner  subscribe  the  same  theological  Creed,  which 
every  Professor  elect  is  required  to  subscribe  ;  and  a 
declaration  of  his  faith  in  the  same  Creed  shall  be  re- 
peated by  him  at  every  successive  period  of  five  years ; 
and,  if  in  the  course  of  events  the  number  of  Visitors 
shall  by  any  special  providence  of  Go  d  be  reduced  to 
one,  the  remaining  Visitor  shall  have  power  to  appoint 
one  suitable  person  to  be  a  Visitor  of  this  Foundation ; 
and  these  two  Visitors  shall  at  their  first  regular  meet- 
ing supply  the  remaining  vacancy  in  the  Board. 

Twentieth.  The  power  and  duties  of  the  Board 
of  Visitors,  thus  constituted  and  organized,  shall  be 
as  follows  ;  namely,  to  visit  the  Foundation  once  in 
every  year,  and  at  other  times,  when  regularly  called 
thereto  ;  to  inquire  into  the  state  of  this  our  Fund,  and 
the  management  of  this  Foundation  with  respect  both 
to  Professors  and  Students  ;  to  determine,  interpret, 
and  explain  the  Statutes  of  this  Foundation  in  all  cases, 
brought  before  them  in  their  judicial  capacity  ;  to  re- 
dress grievances  both  with  respect  to  Professors  and  Stu- 
dents ;  to  hear  appeals  from  decisions  of  the  Board  of 
Trustees,  and  to  remedy  upon  complaint,  duly  exhibit- 
ed in  behalf  of  the  said  Professors  or  Students  ;   to 


63 

review  and  reverse  any  censure,  passed  by  said  Trus- 
tees upon  any  Professor  or  Student  on  this  Foundation ; 
to  declare  void  all  rules  and  regulations,  made  by   the 
said  Trustees,  relative  to  this  Foundation,  which  may  be 
inconsistent  with  the  original  Statutes  thereof  ;  to  take 
care,  that  the  duties  of  every  Professor  on  this  Foun- 
dation be  intelligibly  and  faithfully  discharged,  and  to 
admonish  or  remove  him,  either  for  misbehaviour,  he- 
terodoxy,   incapacity,  or  neglect  of  the   duties  of  his 
office ;  to  examine  into  the  proficiency  of  the  Students, 
and  to  admonish,  suspend,  or  deprive  any  Student  for 
negligence,  contumacy,  or  any  heinous  crime,  commit- 
ted against  the  laws  of  God  or  the  Statutes  of  this 
Foundation  ;  and  in  general,  to  see  that  our  true  in- 
tentions as  expressed  in  these  our  Statutes,  be  faithfully 
executed,  always  administering  justice  impartially,  and 
exercising  the  functions  of  their  office  in  the  fear  of 
God,  according  to  the  said  Statutes,  the  Constitution 
of  this  Seminary,  and  the  Laws  of  the  land. 

T w ENTY-FiRST.  E vcry  election  of  a  Professor  on 
this  Foundation  shall  within  ten  days  be  presented  to 
the  Visitors,  who  are  hereby  vested  with  the  power  and 
right  of  approving  or  negativing,  at  a  regular  meeting, 
every  such  election.  But,  if  any  such  election  be  not 
either  approved  or  negatived  by  the  said  Visitors^ 
within  twelve  months  from  the  commencement  of  a 
vacancy  in  any  Professorship,  such  election  shall  be 
considered,  as  approved  by  the  Visitors,  and  shall  ac^ 
cordingly  be  deemed  constitutional  and  valid  ;  provid- 
ed  always,  that  such  election  shall  have  been  regularly 


64 

communicated  to  the  President  or  Secretary  of  the 
Board  of  Visitors  ten  days  at  least  previously  to  the 
expiration  of  the  twelve  months  aforesaid. 

Twenty-second.  The  Visitors  shall  appoint  a 
standing  Committee,  to  ascertain  the  qualifications  of 
Applicants  for  the  advantages  of  this  Foundation. 
Those,  whom  they  approve,  may  be  recommended  for 
admission,  as  resident  Applicants  on  trial  for  two 
months  ;  and,  if  at  the  expiration  of  this  term  the  Fa- 
culty approve  them,  they  may  be  placed  on  the  list  of 
resident  Students,  till  the  next  annual  meeting  of  the 
Visitors  ;  and,  if  upon  examination  by  the  Board  of 
Visitors  they  be  then  approved,  they  shall  be  register- 
ed, as  Associate  Students  ;  but,  if  not  approved  by  the 
Visitors  after  careful  examination  and  the  best  infor- 
mation respecting  them,  they  shall  be  dismissed  from 
the  Foundation. 

Twenty- THIRD.  No  Applicants,  except  Congre- 
gationalists  and  Presbyterians,  shall  be  admitted  upon 
this  Foundation  ;  and  a  College  education  shall  be  ever 
deemed  an  essential  condition  of  admission,  except  on- 
ly in  some  rare  case  of  distinguished  talents,  informa- 
tion, and  piety. 

T  w  E  n  T  Y  -  F  o  u  R  T  H .  At  all  mcctiugs  of  the  Visitors 
decent  entertainment  shall  be  made  by  the  direction  of 
the  Board,  and  at  the  expense  of  the  Foundation  ;  and 
all  other  necessary  expenses,  attending  the  management 
of  this  Foundation,  shall  be  defrayed  out  of  the  income 
of  the  said  Fund. 

Twenty-fifth.     The  Board  of  Visitors  inalltheir 


65 

proceedings  are  to  be  subject  to  our  Statutes  herein  ex- 
pressed, and  to  conform  their  measures  thereto  ;  and, 
if  they  shall  at  any  time  act  contrary  thereto,  or  exceed 
the  limits  of  their  jurisdiction  and  constitutional  power, 
the  party  aggrieved  may  have  recourse  by  appeal  to 
the  Justices  of  the  Supreme  Judicial  Court  of  this 
Commonwealth,  for  the  time  being,  for  remedy,  who 
are  hereby  appointed  and  authorized  to  judge  in  such 
case,  and,  agreeably  to  the  determination  of  the  major 
part  of  them,  to  declare  null  and  void  any  decree  or 
sentence  of  the  said  Visitors,  which  upon  mature  con- 
sideration they  may  deem  contrary  to  the  said  Statutes, 
or  beyond  the  just  limits  of  their  power,  herein  pre- 
scribed ;  and  by  the  said  Justices  of  the  Supreme  Ju- 
dicial Court  for  the  time  being  shall  the  said  Board  of 
Visitors  at  all  times  be  subject  to  be  restrained  and 
corrected  in  the  undue  exercise  of  their  office. 

Twenty-sixth.  Every  annual  meeting  of  the 
Board  of  Visitors  shall  be  introduced  with  prayer,  after 
which  these  Statutes  shall  be  read  by  the  President. 

Twenty-seventh.  It  is  strictly  and  solemnly 
enjoined,  and  left  in  sacred  charge,  that  every  article 
of  the  above  said  Creed  shall  forever  remain  entirely 
and  identically  the  same,  without  the  least  alteration, 
addition,  or  diminution.  But  we  reserve  to  ourselves 
the  right,  as  Founders,  jointly  to  make,  in  concurrence 
with  the  said  Trustees,  and  within  the  term  of  seven 
years,  such  amendments  or  additional  articles,  in  per- 
fect consistence  with  the  true  object  of  these  Statutes, 
as  upon  experience  and  due  consideration  shall  be  deem- 


66 

ed  necessary  the  more  effectually  to  secure  and  pro- 
mote the  real  design  of  this  our  Foundation. 

Twenty-eighth.  Though  the  Founders,  first 
above  named,  coalesce  with  the  Founders  of  *the  afore- 
said Theological  Institution,  in  the  mamier 
herein  described,  with  a  view  more  effectually  to  pro- 
mote the  cause  of  Evangelical  Truths  and  with  an  ar- 
dent hope,  that  the  coalition  will  terminate  in  a  perfect 
and  indissoluble  union  ;  yet,  if  after  an  experiment  of 
seven  years  coalition,  upon  Visitatorial  principles,  it 
shall  appear  to  the  Board  of  Visitors,  that  the  Visitato- 
rial system  is  either  unsafe  or  inexpedient  ;  the  coali- 
tion may  nevertheless  be  continued  upon  such  other 
principles,  or  system,  as  may  be  then  agreed  on  by  the 
Trustees  and  Visitors  aforesaid,  in  consistency  with  the 
original  design  of  this  our  Foundation;  or  the  said 
Visitors  may  withdraw  the  said  P'und,  (the  said  Trus- 
tees however  not  to  be  responsible  for  any  unavoidable 
loss  from  depreciation  of  the  current  medium,  or  from 
the  Providence  of  God,)  as  upon  mature  consideration 
may  to  them  appear  most  conducive  to  the  glory  oi 
God.  Or,  if  at  any  time  within  the  said  term  of  seven 
yeai's,  contrary  to  our  most  sanguine  expectation,  the 
said  Visitors  shall  by  the  Trustees  aforesaid  be  denied 
or  deprived  of  the  regular  and  proper  exercise  of  the 
power,  authority,  rights,  or  privileges  in  them  hereby 
vested,  agreeably  to  the  true  meaning  of  these  our  Sta- 
tutes ;  then  the  said  Fund  (saving  any  unavoidable  loss, 
as  above  expressed)  shall  revert  to  the  said  Visitors,  to 
be  appropriated  by  them,  as  they  shall  judge  most  con- 


67 

distent  with  the  original  design  of  this  our  Foundation. 
But,  if  at  the  expiration  of  the  seven  years'  experiment, 
or  within  the  said  term  of  seven  years,  the  Board  of 
Visitors  and  the  Trustees  aforesaid  be  well  satisfied 
with  the  safety  and  expediency  of  ^e  Visitatorial  sys- 
tem, and  that  a  perpetual  coalition  is  important  and  de- 
sirable ;  Union  shall  be  established  upon  Visitatorial 
principles,  to  continue,  as  the  Sun  and  Moon,  forever. 

Confiding  in  the  prudent  and  faithful  inspection  of 
our  Visitors,  and  in  the  wisdom  and  fidelity  of  the  said 
Trustees  ;  and  with  the  pleasing  hope,  that  they  will 
religiously  appropriate  the  income  of  the  Fund  afore- 
said to  the  great  object  of  this  Foundation,  as  herein 
described,  agreeably  to  the  Statutes  herein  contained  ; 
we  do,  under  God,  cheerfully  commit  this  our  Foun- 
dation to  their  pious  care,  under  the  limitations  before 
mentioned,  trusting  that  no  exertion  on  their  part  will 
be  wanting  to  the  success  of  an  Institution,  so  intimate- 
ly connected  with  the  salvation  of  men  and  the  glory 
of  God. 

To  the  Spirit  of  truth,  to  the  divine  Author  of 
our  faith,  to  the  only  wise  God,  we  desire  in  sincerity 
to  present  this  our  humble  offering,  devoutly  imploring 
the  Father  of  lights  richly  to  endue  with  wisdom 
from  above  all  his  servants,  the  Visitors  of  this  Foun- 
dation and  the  Trustees  of  the  Seminary,  and  with 
spiritual  understanding  the  Professors  therein  ;  that, 
being  illuminated  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  their  doctrine 
may  drop  as  the  rain,  and  that  their  Pupils  may  become 


6^ 

trees  of  renown  in  the  Courts  of  our  God,  whereby  He 
may  be  glorified. 

In  witness  whereof  we  have  hereunto  set  our  hands 
and  seals  this  twenty  first  day  of  March,  in  the  year  of 
our  Lord  oiie  thoiimnd  eight  hundred  and  eight. 

MOSES  BROWN,  (S.) 

WILLIAM  BARTLET,   (S.) 
JOHN  NORRIS.  (S.) 

Signed^  sealed^  and  delivered 
in  the  presence  of  usy 

SAMUEL  SPRING, 

JEDIDIAH  MORSE. 


SERMON 


PREACHED  AT  THE  OPENIN#eF  THE 


THEOLOGICAL   INSTITUTION 


IN  ANDOVER ; 


AND  AT  THE  ORDINATION  OP 


BEV.  ELIPHALET  PEARSON,  LL.D. 


SEPTEMBER  28th,  1808. 


BY  REV.  TIMOTHY  DWIGHT,  D.D. 

TRESIDENT    OF   YALE   COLLEGE, 


/ 


BOSTON : 
PUBLISHED  BY  FARRAND,  MALLORY,  AND  CO. 

SUFFOLK  BUILDINGS,  STATE  STREET. 

Belcher  £\nd  Armstrong,  Printers. 
1808. 


MATTHEW  xiii.  52. 

THEN  SAID  HE  UNTO  THEM,  THEREFORE  EVERY 
SCRIBE,  WHO  IS  INSTRUCTED  UNTO  THE  KING- 
DOM  OF  HEAVEN,  IS  LIKE  UNTO  A  MAN  WHO  IS 
AN  HOUSEHOLDER,  WHO  BRINGETH  FORTH  OUT 
OF  HIS    TREASURE    THINGS  NEW  AND  OLD. 

A  SCRIBE,  in  scriptural  language,  was  a  person, 
professionally  employed  in  expounding  to  the  Jewish 
nation  the  law  of  God.  In  the  text  this  name  is  given 
to  a  Minister  of  the  gospel.  Such  a  Minister,  when  in- 
structed unto  the  kingdom  of  God,  i.  e.  educated  to  the 
service  of  the  church,  is  said  by  oui:  Saviour  to  be  like 
unto  an  Householder  who  hringeth  forth  out  of  his  trea- 
sure things  new  and  old,  A  treasure  is  a  collection  of 
valuable  things,  stored  for  future  use.  Here  it  denotes 
a  rich  collection  of  valuable  thoughts,  and  useful  pro- 
fessional knowledge,  treasured  up  by  such  a  Minister 
through  a  series  of  years,  and  brought  forth,  as  occa- 
sion requires,  for  the  benefit  of  mankind. 

The  acquisitions,  which  obviously  constitute  this 
treasure,  are  numerous  and  important.  The  Evan- 
gelical Scribe,  without  a  question,  ought  well  to  un- 
derstand the  Scriptures ;  the  Evidences,  on  which  they 
rest  for  their  divine  origin^  and  the  Doctrines  and  Pre=' 


cepts,  which  they  contain.     To  this  end  it  is  necessary, 
that  he  should  thoroughly  understand  his  o^mi  language, 
the  Latin,  the  Greek,  and  tlie  Hebrew.     Of  the  last  he 
cannot  be  ignorant  without  serious  disadvantages ;  nor 
of  the  three  first,  in  ordinary  circumstances,  -without 
disgrace.      If  he  cannot  construe  words  and  phrases  ; 
he  cannot  settie  the  opinions,  which  they  express ;  but 
must  al^vays  be  bewildered   in  uncertaint}^,  and  error. 
If  he  is  not  versed  in  his  own  language ;  he  cannot  un- 
derstand the  books  which  he  reads,  nor  communicate 
his  sentiments  as  he  wishes-     In  ancient  Histor}',  both 
civil  and  ecclesiastical,  he  ought  to  be  well  read  ;    be- 
cause, otherwise,  he  will  not  know  the  meaning  of  the 
numerous  Scriptural  allusions  to  the  former,  nor  the 
state  of  the  Church,  as  unfolded  in  the  latter;  and  be- 
cause a  large  part  of  the  proofs  of  a  divine  Revelation 
rest  upon  the  facts,  furnished  by  both.     He  ought  to 
be  thoroughly  acquainted  vnth  Logic,  because,  other- 
wise, he  cannot  reason  with  skill,  or  success ,-    with 
Rhetoric,  because  it  is  necessary  to  teach  him  how  to 
write,  and  speak,  with  propriety  and  force  ;  with  Nat- 
ural Theology,  because  it  is  a  branch  of  his  profes- 
sional science,  and  because  the  Scriptures  have  made 
it  a  part,  and  a  fundamental  one,  of  the  Rehgion  which 
he  teaches ;    and  with  Christian  Theology,  because  it 
constitutes  the  principal  business  of  his  office.     Gene- 
rally, liis  mind  ought  to  be  variously,  and  extensively, 
furnished  with  useful  knowledge  ;    because,  otherwise, 
his  views  will  be  contracted;  his  illustrations  of  divine 
truth  inapposite,  uninstructive,  and  unsatisfactor}^ ;  and 
his  images  few,  poor,  and  often  low  and  disgusting. 


He  is  set  for  the  defence  of  the  truth ;  and  must, 
therefore,  be  furnished  with  the  necessary  weapons  of 
defence.  He  is  to  teach  others ;  and,  therefore,  ought 
to  be  able  to  teach.  Without  this  knowledge  he  may, 
indeed,  as  it  is  indispensable  that  he  should,  be  a  good 
man  ;  but  he  will  not  be  a  good  teacher.  Every  one, 
who  hears  him,  may  address  to  him  the  humiliating 
and  unanswerable  proverb  ;  "  Physician,  heal  thyself." 

That  a  Religious  Instructor  ought  to  have  his  mind 
thus  stored  with  the  knowledge,  suited  to  his  employ- 
ment, is  forcibly  taught  in  the  text.  It  is  also  exhib- 
ited with  equal  force  in  other  parts  of  the  Scriptures^ 

The  ancient  instructors  of  the  Jews  were  the  Priests^ 
and  the  Prophets  ;  the  ordinary,  and  extraordinary, 
Ministers  of  God  to  his  people.  The  Priests  were  re- 
quired to  teach  the  children  of  Israel  all  the  statutes^ 
which  the  Lord  had  spoken  by  the  hand  of  Moses, ^ 
Accordingly,  Moses  prophesied  of  them,  that  they 
should  teach  the  law^  and  the  judgments^  of  God  to  Is- 
rael-[  in  succeeding  generations.  By  the  Prophet 
Malachi,  God  testifies  concerning  them,  that  the  law  of 
truth  was  in  their  mouthy  and  that  they  turned  away 
many  from  their  iniquity,  ''  For  the  Priesfs  lips,''  he 
subjoins,  '^  should  keep  knowledge  ;  and  they  should 
seek  law  at  his  mouth,'^X  If  the  Priest's  lips  were  to 
keep  knowledge ;  his  mind  must  have  obtained  it.  If 
the  people  were  to  seek  the  law  at  his  mouth ;  he  must 
have  previously  learned,  and  understood,  the  law.  It 
ought  not  to  be  forgotten,  that,  in  this  passage,  the 
Prophet  has  connected  with  the  knowledge  of  the  law 

*  Lev.  1^.  t'l.  f  Beut.  33.  10.  ±  Mai.  2. 


6  ^ 

integrity  of  instruction,  rectitude  of  life,  and  a  minis- 
try, successful  in  turning  many  from  their  iniquity. 

It  is  declared  by  the  Jewish  Rabbins,  and  is  adopted 
from  them  by  Lightfoot,  that  some,  at  least,  of  the 
cities,  distributed  to  the  Levites,  were  universities,  de- 
voted to  the  education  of  those  who  belonged  to  that 
tribe. 

The  Prophets  were  extraordinary  Ministers  to  the 
people  of  Israel.     It  is  wxll  known,  that  they  were  iri- 
spii'ed  ;  or  that  the  will  of  God  was,    from  time  to 
time,  immediately  revealed  to  them.      It  is  also  well 
known,  that  they  were  carefully  educated  to  their  pro* 
fession  in  schools,  consecrated  to  this  purpose.     Rama- 
thaim  Zophiniy  or  Tsophim,  i.e.  the  Ramaths  of  the 
Seed's,  contained  the  first  of  these  schools,  spoken  of  in 
the  Scriptures.      Over  this  school  Samuel  presided. 
Others  were  afterwards  erected  in  other  places  ;  and 
were  superintended,  probably,  by  Elijah^  Elishay  Na- 
than^ Gady  and  other  Prophets,  in  their  respective  times. 
After  the  captivity,  schools,  generally  of  the  same  na- 
ture, were  set  up  at  Babyloriy  and  elsewhere  :  some  of 
which  were  holden  in  high  repute  by  the  Jewish  nation. 
That  God  was  pleased  to  educate  men,  destined  by 
him  to  receive  the  spirit  of  inspiration,  under  the  most 
enlightened  Instructors  of  their  respective  ages,  is  a 
strong  and  decisive  argument  for  the  liberal  education 
of  men  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Gospel.     There  is,  how- 
ever, a  fact,  which  furnishes  an  argument  of  still  great- 
er strength,  and  more  decisive  efficacy.     Christ  se- 
lected his  Apostles  for  the  great  work  of  preaching  the 
gospel  to  mankind.     Exclusively  of  St.  Paul^  who  was 


\ 


educated  in  all  the  learning  of  the  Jews^  and  to  a  con- 
siderable extent  in  that  of  the  Greeks,  He  himself 
taught  all  his  Apostles  with  his  own  mouth,  more,  ac- 
cording to  the  common  opinion,  than  thr^e  years,  and, 
in  mine,  more  than  four.      Never  was  there  such  a 
Teacher  :    never  such  a  luminous  course  of  Instruc- 
tion.    How  immensely  important  they  esteemed  it  we 
know  from  their  own  testimony,  and  from  the  daily 
and  extensive  use  which  they  made  of  these  instruc- 
tions in  their  preaching  and  viritings.     Yet  these  men 
were  destined  by  their  Master  to  receive  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Holy  Ghost,  in  a  degree  totally  transcend-  ^ 
ing  that,  which  had    been  vouchsafed  to  any  other 
Prophets. 

These  illustrations,  if  I  mistake  not,  place  the  im» 
portance  of  an  enlightened  education  to  those,  who  are 
designed  for  the  Evangelical  Ministry,  in  a  light,  which 
nothing  can  obscure  ;  and  lend  to  it  a  sanction,  which 
nothing  can  lessen. 

What  is  thus  unequivocally,  and  so  strongly,  enforc- 
ed by  the  Scriptures,  Reason  and  Experience  urge 
upon  mankind  with  their  united  voice.  Reason  pro- 
claims, that  an  ignorant  teacher  is  necessarily  a  mere 
Empiric,  professing  to  communicate  what  he  does  not 
possess.  Experience  testifies,  that  all  such  Teachers 
distribute  to  their  hearers  chaff  instead  of  wheat ;  and 
that  they  are  so  far  from  being  able  to  furnish  food  for 
men,  as  to  be  incapable  of  supplying  the  milk,  which  is 
necessary  for  babes. 

There  are,  however,  many  persons  in  this  and  other 
Christian  countries,  who  declare,  both  in  their  lan« 


giiage  and  conduct,  that  the  desk  ought  to  be  yielded 
up  to  the  occupancy  of  Ignorance.  While  they  de- 
mand a  seyen-years-apprenticeship,  for  the  purpose  of 
learning  to  make  a  shoe,  or  an  axe  ;  they  suppose  the 
system  of  Providence,  together  with  the  numerous, 
and  frequently  abstruse,  doctrines  and  precepts,  con- 
tained in  the  Scriptures,  may  be  all  comprehended 
without  learning,  labour,  or  time.  While  they  insist, 
equally  with  others,  that  their  property  shall  be  man- 
aged by  skilful  agents,  their  judicial  causes  directed 
by  learned  advocates,  and  their  children,  when  sick, 
attended  by  able  physicians  ;  they  are  satisfied  to  place 
their  Religion,  tlieir  souls,  and  their  salvation,  under 
the  guidance  of  quackery.  Among  these  people,  men 
become  preachers  in  a  moment  ;  and  put  on  the  quali- 
fications for  the  Ministry,  as  they  put  on  a  coat.  Mul- 
titudes of  them  can  neither  speak,  nor  write,  nor  even 
read,  English  with  propriety.  They  can  neither  ex- 
plain, nor  understand,  the  great  body  of  Scriptural  pas- 
sages. They  profess  themselves  to  be  set  for' the  de- 
fence of  the  truth  ;  and  yet  know  not  what  the  truth 
is,  nor  what  are  the  means  of  defending  it.  Should 
the  Gospel  be  attacked  by  an  Infidel ;  they  are  unable 
either  to  answer  his  objections,  or  to  tell  what  are  the 
proofs,  on  which  its  authority  rests  as  a  Revelation  from 
God.  Should  the  translation  of  a  text  be  called  in 
question  ;  they  could  neither  explain,  nor  defend  it. 
Should  a  geographical,  or  historical  fact  be  mentioned ; 
or  a  local  custom  alluded  to  ;  it  might,  so  far  as  they 
are  concerned,  as  well  have  been  written  in  Arabic,  as 
in  English^ 


At  the  same  time,  men  of  this  character  are  incapable 
of  the  decorum,  and  dignity,  which  are  indispensable  in 
the  desk*  By  mankind,  at  large.  Religion  is  primarily 
seen  in  its  Ministers  ;  and,  in  the  common  apprehen- 
sion, almost  necessarily  takes  the  degree  of  reputation 
and  importance,  which  it  actually  sustains,  from  the 
manner,  in  which  it  is  exhibited  by  them.  If  Ministers 
are  respectable  ;  Religion  will  by  mankind  in  general 
be  respected*  If  they  are  grave  ;  it  will  be  regardeid 
with  seriousness.  If  they  are  intelligent  ;  it  will  be 
believed  to  be  a  compend  of  wisdom.  If  they  are  re- 
fined ;  it  will  be  supposed  actually  to  refine  and  purify 
man.  If  they  are  dignified  ;  it  will  be  believed  to  be 
noble.  If  they  are  pious ;  it  will  be  acknowledged  to 
be  real. 

But  if,  on  the  contrary.  Ministers  are  contemptible  ; 
Religion  will  be  despised.  If  they  exhibit  levity  in 
their  manners  ;  it  will  be  considered  as  a  mere  collec- 
tion of  ti'ifles.  If  they  are  ignorant ;  it  will  be  suppos- 
ed  to  be  a  mass  of  folly.  If  they  are  vulgar  ;  it  will 
be  regarded,  not  by  superior  minds  only,  but  ultimate- 
ly by  the  people  at  large,  as  a  system  of  grovelling 
doctrines,  and  debasing  precepts,  lowering  the  charac- 
ter of  man  to  a  degree,  beneath  even  his  natural  de- 
gradation. If  their  deportment  exhibits,  on  the  whole, 
meanness  and  littleness  of  character  ;  Religion  itself 
will  sink-down  to  their  level  ;  and  become  the  subject 
of  disgrace,  and  the  object  of  scorn  and  ridicule. 

I  will  not  occupy  the  time  of  this  assembly  in  refut- 
ing,  any  farther,  the  miserable  shifts,  and  impious  pre- 
tensions, by  which  these  men  endeavour  to  support 


10 

themselves  in  this  \\Tetched  cause.  Without  a  shadow 
of  argument  in  its  favour,  it  can  be  embraced  only  by 
imposture,  ignorance,  or  enthusiasm  ;  and  must  al- 
ways shrink  from  the  touch  of  sober  investigation. 
That  it  will  continue  to  engross  the  attachment,  and 
the  labours,  of  many  persons  in  this  and  other  Chris-, 
tian  countries,  is  certainly  to  be  expected  :  for  it  must 
needs  be^  that  offences  come  ;  but  woe  to  that  man,  by 
whom  the  offence  cometh.  All  that  can  be  done  by  the 
friends  of  Christianity,  towards  an  effectual  resistance 
against  this  evil,  is  to  lessen,  as  fai'  as  may  be,  the  in* 
fluence  of  those  causes,  from  which  it  springs  ;  and 
thus  to  prevent  the  existence  of  their  effects.  The  In- 
stitution, whose  birth  we  are  this  day  assembled  to 
celebrate,  is  designed,  peculiarly,  to  accomplish  this 
invaluable  end.  Its  efficacy  may  in  some  measure  be 
understood  from  the  following  considerations. 

1st.  It  is  the  design  of  this  Institution  to  furnish  stu- 
dents xvith  a  sufficient  opportunity  to  prepare  themselves 
for  the  Ministry  of  the  Gospel. 

For  this  end,  it  not  only  offers  them  gratuitous  in- 
struction, and  the  gratuitous  use  of  such  books,  as  are 
fitted  to  this  purpose  ;  but  provides  for  them,  also,  at 
least  to  a  considerable  extent,  the  buildings  in  which 
they  are  to  live,  and  the  necessary  expences  of  living. 
It  has  long  been  a  frequent,  and  unhappily  a  too  well 
founded,  complaint,  that  Theological  students  were,  in 
many  instances,  forced  into  the  desk,  xtry  imperfectly 
fitted  for  their  profession,  because  their  pecuniary  cir- 
cumstances Avould  not  permit  them  to  pursue  their 
studies   through   a  sufficient  length    of  time.      The 


11 

foundation  of  this  complaint,  it  is  hoped,  will  here,  in  a 
great  measure,  be  taken  away  ;  and  young  men,  des- 
tined for  the  Ministry,  be  furnished  with  those  accom- 
modations for  their  great  purpose,  which  will  enable 
them  to  pursue  it  through  such  a  period,  as  wise  and 
good  judges  shall  deem  necessary.  The  stated  period 
will  probably  be  thought  sufficient ;  when  it  is  remem- 
bered, that  each  student  will  previously  have  obtained 
a  regular  and  liberal  education. 

2dly.  ^  library  will  he  furnished^  sufficiently  various^ 
and  extensive^  for  the  purposes  intended. 

As  the  books,  involved  in  this  part  of  the  Institu- 
tion, will  all  be  selected  solely  for  the  benefit  of  those, 
who  are  to  use  them ;  they  will  probably  yield  advan- 
tages, which  can  be  enjoyed,  elsewhere,  only  by  means 
of  much  more  extensive  collections. 

3dly.  Professors  will  be  established  in  the  five  great 
divisions'  of  theological  education  :  Natural  Theology  ^ 
Christian  Theology f-  Sacred  Literature^  Ecclesiastical 
History^  and  the  Eloquence  qf  the  Desk.  To  these  it 
may,  hereafter,  be  thought  expedient  to  add  a  Profes- 
sor of  the  Oriental  Languages. 

It  is  hardly  necessary  for  me  to  observe,  that  each  of 
these  branches  of  Theological  Learning  is  sufficiently 
extended,  and  various,  to  demand,  and  to  exhaust,  the 
vitmost  talents  of  a  single  man  ;  or  that  the  instruction 
in  each,  which  will  be  highly  profitable  to  students  iii 
Theology,  may  advantageously  employ  the  whole  time, 
and  labour,  of  the  most  learned  Professor. 

In  this  country,  hitherto,  such  students,  after  having 
completed  a  regular  course  of  Collegiate  education, 


12 

have  generally,  and  necessarily,  been  placed  under  the 
tutelage  of  parochial  Ministers.  An  individual,  in  this 
case,  has  furnished  all  their  professional  instruction  ; 
and  that  while  encumbered  by  the  superintendance  of 
a  parish^  and  the  labour  of  writing,  and  preaching,  two 
sermons  in  a  week*  Of  this  subject  I  speak  with  con- 
fidence, because  I  speak  from  experience  ;  and  cannot 
but  have  learned,  in  this  way,  the  embarrassments,  in- 
separable from  a  course  of  instruction,  so  interwoven 
with  other  perplexing  concerns.  Were  an  Instructor 
ever  so  competent :  it  would  be  impossible  for  him  to 
command  sufficient  time  to  communicate  the  knowl- 
edge, which  ought  to  be  considered  as  indispensable- 
Even  the  principal  things  must  be  summarily  taught. 
The  rest,  both  numerous  and  important,  must  be  either 
barely  glanced  at,  or  wholly  passed  over.  The  true 
reason,  why  so  many  able  and  excellent  divines  have 
existed  in  this  country,  does  not  lie  in  their  prepara- 
tory advantages,  but  in  their  talents,  their  fidelity,  and 
their  subsequent  vigorous  application  to  study. 

In  the  present  case  tliese  disadvantages  are  removed. 
Men  of  known  reputation  are  here  selected  for  the  pur- 
poses of  studying,  and  instructing,  severally,  each  of 
these  great  divisions  of  Theological  knowledge  :  and 
this  taeach  of  them  becomes  the  business  of  life.  They 
are  secluded  from  all  other  employments ;  and  encum- 
bered by  no  other  cares,  beside  those,  which  are  uni- 
versally incident  to  man.  Ample  opportunity,  there- 
fore, to  make  extensive  acquisitions  is  here  furnished 
to  them  all  ;  to  arrange  into  system  whatever  they  ac- 
quire ;  to  correct  whatever  they  find  erroneous  ;  and 


13 

to  teach  with  regularity  and  method  the  results  of  their 
various  labours. 

At  the  same  time,  they  will  direct  with  similar  re- 
gularity that  course  of  reading,  which  is  best  suited  to 
a  Theological  education  ;  demand  of  their  students 
those  exercises,  which  will  render  what  they  read  their 
own  ;  watch  attentively  their  moral  and  religious  de- 
portment ;  withdraw  them  from  errors ;  reprove  them 
for  faults  ;  warn  them  of  dangers  ;  and  endeavour, 
universally,  to  increase  their  knowledge  of  experiment- 
tal  piety. 

4thly.  Students  may  here  derive  pecidiar  advantages 
from  each  other. 

It  is  reasonably  believed,  that  a  considerable  num- 
ber of  youths  will  ultimately  assemble  in  this  place,  for 
the  purpose  of  obtaining  an  education  for  the  Ministry ; 
and  will  naturally  be  united  to  each  other  in  the  bonds 
of  friendship.  All  Ministers  ought  to  be  friends.  To 
this  end,  however,  some  knowledge  of  each  other  is  no 
less  necessary,  than  mutual  good  will.  When  Minis- 
ters are  educated  separately,  and  solitarily,  tliis  knowl- 
edge, in  ordinary  cases,  cannot  exist ;  and,  when  it  ac- 
tually exists,  must  often  be  very  imperfqct.  Here, 
being  educated  together,  being  of  the  same  age,  pupils 
of  the  same  Instructors,  tenants  of  the  same  buildings, 
engaged  in  the  same  delightful  pursuits,  and  actuated, 
as  we  may  reasonably  hope,  by  the  same  spirit,  they 
can  hardly  fail  to  he  of  one  accord^  and  of  one  mind. 
The  friendships,  formed  in  youth,  ai^e  peculiarly  inti- 
mate and  endearing.  The  very  phrase,  "  A  friend  of 
my  youth,"  carries  with  it  an  image,  which  few  men 


14 

survey  without  delightful  emotions.  The  friendships, 
formed  here,  will,  it  is  believed,  spring  from  the  best 
ef  all  sources  ;  Evangelical  Virtue.  They  will,  also, 
be  strongly  cemented  by  oneness  of  age,  education,  cir- 
cumstances, and  pursuits.  They  will,  therefore,  last 
through  life  ;  will  have  a  powerful  influence  on  the 
character  and  conduct  ;  will  extend  their  efiicacy  over 
every  part  of  this  land ;  and  will  effect,  in  the  happiest 
manner,  all  the  moral  and  religious  interests  of  its  in- 
habitants. 

5thly.  The  doctrines ^  which  will  be  taught  here,  are 
the  doctrines  of  the  reformation. 
,  These  are  the  doctrines,  generally  taught  in  the 
creeds,  catechisms,  and  confessions,  of  almost  all  Pro- 
testant Churches.  They  are  the  doctrines,  conveyed 
down  to  us  from  the  earliest  periods  of  the  Church  by 
that  body  of  Christians,  to  whom  the  title  of  Orthodox 
was  peculiarly  applied,  both  by  themselves  and  their 
opposers.  They  are  the  doctrines,  brought  with  them 
by  those  eminently  good  men,  who  converted  New^ 
England  from  a  desert  into  a  garden.  They  are  the 
doctrines,  under  which  almost  all  Revivals  of  Religion 
have  existed.  They  are,  therefore,  the  doctrines, 
which  have  peculiar  claims  to  be  acknowledged  as 
those  of  the  Apostles.  An  Institution,  which  provides 
extensive  and  permanent  instruction  in  Religious  knowl- 
edge, of  such  a  nature,  sets  up,  in  this  manner,  the  best 
human  barrier  against  error  ;  and  furnislies  the  best 
means,  within  the  reach  of  man,  for  the  general  diffu- 
sion, and  perpetuation,  of  the  U'uth,  influence,  and 
blessings,  of  the  Gospel. 


15 

Finally.  A  general  controul  over  all  these  subjects  is 
vested  in  the  Boards  of  Trustees ^  and  Visitors,  constitut- 
ed by  the  Founders. 

These  Boards,  it  is  hoped,  will  feel  in  a  deep  and 
aiFecting  manner  the  importance  of  the  trust,  commit- 
ted to  their  hands ;  and  with  fervent  prayers,  Evan- 
gelical zeal,  and  Christian  fidelity,  labour,  unceasingly, 
to  render  the  Institution,  in  all  respects,  extensively 
and  eminently  useful.  Where  so  much  has  been  done 
for  so  good  a  purpose  ;  it  ought  to  be  hoped,  that  no 
beneficial  effect  of  such  efforts  will  fail  of  being  realiz- 
ed by  the  Church  of  Christ,  either  through  negligence, 
or  error,  on  the  part  of  those,  to  whom  the  general 
management  of  it  is  entrusted. 

We  are  assembled,  my  Friends  and  Brethren,  on 
the  birth  day  of  an  Institution,  consecrated  to  the  ser- 
vice of  the  Redeemer,  and  destined  to  furnish  a  suc- 
cession of  able  and  faithful  Ministers  for  the  City  of  ^ 
our  God.  Those,  to  whom  the  immediate  care  of  it  is 
committed,  cannot  fail  to  realize  the  importance  of  that 
solemn  office,  which  they  will  this  day  begin  to  sus- 
tain. They  will,  however,  suffer  me  to  assume  the 
task,  not  of  an  Instructor  ;  as  unnecessar}'  to  them  as 
unsuited  to  me  ;  but  of  an  affectionate  and  Christian 
Monitor,  disposed  with  fraternal  good- will  to  awaken 
in  them,  on  this  interesting  occasion,  the  remembrance 
of  their'duty. 

When  Christ  ascended  on  high,  and  led  captivity  cap- 
tive ;  he  gave  gifts  unto  men.  Among  these  gifts, 
Pastors  and  Teachers  were,  after  tlie  Apostles,  more 
important  than  any  other.     These  are  the  persons,,  by 


m 

ivhose  instrumentality  the  salvation  of  theii*  fellow-men^ 
in  all  lands  and  ages,  is  chiefly  accomplished.  These 
are  the  pillars,  on  which,  in  this  world,  primarily 
stands  that  glorious  building,  the  Church  of  God. 
From  the  faithful  labours  of  these  men,  as  instruments 
in  the  hands  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  have  been  derived 
the  prevalence  of  the  Gospel  in  the  world,  the  triumphs 
of  the  cross,  the  religion  of  the  East  and  the  West^  and 
the  im_mortal  life  of  millions,  who  are  now  united  to  the 
general  assembly  of  the  first  born. 

To  form,  and  accomplish,  for  this  sacred,  this  celes- 
tial office,  such  youths,  as  spontaneously  devote  them- 
selves to  it,  is  the  design,  for  which  this  School  of  the 
Prophets  is  erected.  To  this  noble  design,  you,  my 
Brethren,  are  solemnly  set  apart  this  day.  I  feel  my- 
self warranted  to  assert,  that  you  will  think  no  labour, 
no  care,  no  self-denial,  too  great  to  be  cheerfully  en- 
countered in  this  honourable  employment. 

To  compass  this  divine  purpose,  it  is  indispensable, 
that  he,  who  is  destined  to  the  Ministry,  should  be 
efiectually  instructed  unto  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  He 
must  not  be  a  Novice^  lest^  being  lifted  up  with  pride, 
he  fall  into  the  condemnation  of  the  devil.  The  Truth 
of  God,  alone  makes  Witiifree  from  the  bondage  of  sin 
and  death.  But  he,  vvho  is  to  preach  it,  772^^^  knoxv  what 
sit  is  ;  or  he  will  never  be  able  to  communicate  it  to 
his  hearers.  To  this  knowledge  laborious  study,  and 
sound  instruction,  are  the  only  avenues.  Without  these 
advantages  the  professed  Teacher  may  indeed  be  a 
Christian,  but  he  cannot  be  a  Teacher.  Children  and 
slaves  mav  be  Christians. 


17 

Equally  indispensable  is  it,  that  he  should  believe  the 
truth.  Whatever  knowledge  he  may  have  amassed  of 
this  glorious  object,  whatever  acquaintance  he  may  have 
gained  with  the  Scriptures,  it  can,  obviously,  be  to  no 
useful  purpose,  so  far  as  his  Ministry  is  concerned,  or 
the  salvation  of  his  flock,  unless  he  also  believes  the 
doctrines,  wliich  they  contain.  What  he  does  not  be- 
lieve he  will  never  teach,  and  they  will  never  hear.  The 
Bible  may  in  the  most  extensive  manner  be  in  his  mind ; 
and  Plato  or  Epictetus,  Behmen  or  Swedenhorg^  Hume 
or  Herbert^  may  fill  his  sermons.  All  his  public  and 
private  instructions  may  be  made  up  of  the  bew  ildered 
dreams  of  enthusiasm,  or  the  frosty  morals  of  heartless 
philosophy ;  and  be  as  destitute  of  Evangelical  truth,  as 
barren  of  hope,  and  life,  as  a  Nubian  desert.  Fifty-two 
times  in  a  year  the  Sabbath  may  dawn  with  the  light  of 
heaven,  the  Sanctuary  open  the  gates  of  immortality,  the 
assembly  of  perishing  sinners  convene,  and  the  Mmister 
ascend  the  sacred  desk ;  and  yet* no  call  of  Mercy  be 
heard  ;  no  voice  of  the  Redeemer  summon  them  to  re- 
pentance, and  faith,  and  love  ;  and  no  invitation  of  a 
forgiving  God  announce  to  them  the  tidings  of  immor- 
tal glory.  Under  such  a  Teacher,  his  flock  %vill  grope 
for  the  wall  like  the  blind^  and  grope  as  if  they  had  no 
eyes  ;  stumble  at  noon  day  as  in  the  night  ;  and  will  be 
in  desolate  places  as  dead  men,^  Throughout  his  whole 
Ministry  he  will  be  merely  a  substitute  for  a  Cliristian 
Pastor  ;  an  automaton,  in  the  place,  and  dress,  and 
business,  of  a  living  man. 

*  Isaiah  59.  10, 


What  must  be  the  feeUngs  of  such  a  Preacher  at  the 
great  day  of  account  ?  "  F(?,"  said  St.  Paul  to  his  own 
converts  in  Corinth,  Philippi,  and  Thessalonica,  ''''are 
our  hope,  our  joy,  and  our  croxvn  of  rejoicing  in  the  day 
of  Christ  Jesus J^^     But  who  shall  be  the  crown,  the  joy, 
or  the  hope,  of  such  a  Preacher  as  this  ?    When  he 
stands  before  the  final  Judge  ;  what  must  be  the  sub- 
jects of  his  account  ?  When  he  confesses,  as  he  will  be 
compelled  to  confess,  that  he  has  preached  another  Gos- 
pel, than  that  which  Paul  preached  ;    must  he  not  be 
withered  by  the  remembrance,  that  the  same  Judge  has 
said  of  every  such  Preacher,  "  Let  him  he  anathema  ?'* 
What  plea  will  he  make  for  intruding  upon  the  preroga- 
tive of  Jehovah,  and  substituting  for  His  truth,  the 
contrivances,,  the  whims,    the  phrenzies,  of  his   own 
moon-struck  mind  ?    What  can  such  a  man  rehearse 
before  the  tremendous  bar  of  God,  but  wasted  talents, a 
prostituted  Ministry,  dishonest  sermons,  and  a  ruined 
Congregation  ?    In  the  mean  time,  his  flock,  committed 
to  his  charge,  that  they  might  obtain  salvation  imder  his 
preaching,  and  now  summoned  around  him  to  be  wit-, 
nesses  of  his  condemnation,  and  of  the  guilt  on  which  it. 
is  founded,  must,  unless  prevented  by  other  means,  Qnly 
share  in  his  ruin.     On  their  salvation  such  a  mancan^ 
never  have  spent  a  thought,  nor  employed  a  moment. 
With  what  confusion  must  he  now  behold  them  all  led 
by  himself  into  the  broad  and  crooked  road,  which  goes 
down  to  the  chambers  of  death  ?    Without  an  attempt 
made,  or  a  wish  cherished,  to  feed  them  with  the  bread, 
or  gather  them  into  the  fold,  of  life,  he  has  quietly  be- 
held them  advance,  or  has  rather  taken  them  by  the 


19 

hand,  and  walked  coolly  by  their  side,  to  the  world  of 
perdition.  With  what  feelings  must  such  a  Minister, 
and  such  a  Flock,  regard  each  other  at  this  amazing  in- 
terview ?  With  what  agony  must  he  behold  their  eter- 
nal ruin ;  and  know,  that  it  has  been  extensively  deriv- 
ed from  himself  ?  How  feaifuUy  must  their  eyes  kindle, 
and  their  bosoms  burn,  with  resentment,  against  the 
author  of  injuries,  which  transcend  all  limits,  and  of 
sufferings,  which  know  neither  alleviation  nor  end? 

It  is,  also,  of  the  last  consequence,  that  the  Preacher 
should  feel  the  truths  which  he  knows,  and  believes. 
A  cold  Preacher  naturally  makes  a  frozen  audience. 
The  truths  of  the  Gospel  are  of  such  immense  import 
in  themselves,  that  it  is  difficult  for  a  hearer  to  believe 
the  Preacher,  who  utters  them  with  a  wind-and- weather 
indifference,  to  be  in  earnest.  Should  he  escape  this 
censure,  the  sympathy  (if  I  may  call  it  such)  of  a  stag- 
nant countenance,  a  marbled  posture,  and  a  lifeless 
tongue,  will  reach  every  heart  in  his  Congregation  ;  and 
benumb  mth  a  paralytic  power  all  the  living,  waking 
energy  of  the  mind.  A  religious  assembly,  habitually 
thus  addressed,  will  soon  become  a  counterpart  to  one 
of  those  silent  Congregations,  depicted  in  Eastern  tales ; 
over  which  a  Genie  has  stretched  his  mysterious  wand, 
and  changed  them  all  into  living  statues  :  an  assembly 
of  forms  and  features  merely  ;  possessed  of  minds  in- 
deed,  but  minds  which  have  lost  the  power  to  act,  of 
eyes  which  cannot  see,  and  ears  which  cannot  hear.  A 
spectator,  uninformed  of  the  ti^ansmutation  which  they 
have  undergone,  believes  them  to  be  human  beings. 
He  calls  to  them  ;  but  no  voice  answers  ;  no  eve  turns 


2d 

toward  him  the  look  of  consciousness ;  no  motion,  no 
instinctive  impulse,  gives  the  sign  of  remaining  life. 
Lost  in  astonishment,  he  looks  around  him,  to  find  in 
this  crowd  of  images  living  men  and  women  ;  but  dis- 
cerns nothing  beside  silence,  solitude,  and  death.  The 
surrounding  walls,  mistaken  by  him  for  the  residence 
of  intelligent  beings,  are  changed  into  a  vault,  entomb- 
ing the  remains  of  departed  man.  Amazed,  over- 
whelmed, despairing  of  any  future  return  of  thought, 
and  sense,  and  life,  to  these  inanimate  forms,  he  throws 
around  the  last  gaze  of  horror,  sighs,  trembles,  and  re- 
tires. Who  would  willingly  be  such  a  Preacher  ?  Who 
could  consent  thus  to  benumb  the  flock,  whose  immor- 
tal welfare  was  committed  to  him  by  the  Redeemer  ? 
Who,  let  me  further  ask,  could  be  the  voluntary  in- 
strument of  educating  such  Preachers  as  these  ?  Who 
would  not  think  life  well  spent  in  educating  those  of  the 
contrary  character  ? 

Trace,  my  beloved  Brethren,  now  to  be  solemnly  in- 
ducted into  these  Cliristian  professorships,  (one  of  you 
for  a  length  of  time  already  employed  in  the  Ministry  ; 
the  other  still  longer  devoted  to  it,  and  on  this  occasion 
to  be  solemnly  consecrated  to  its  official  duties;)  trace, 
with  me,  the  high  import,  and  immense  utility,  of  the 
pastoral  function.  Take  the  simplest  object,  by  which 
it  can  be  illustrated  :  a  single  Sinner,  making  his  escape 
from  the  bondage  of  corruption  into  the  glorious  liberty^ 
and  final  privileges^  of  the  Sons  of  Gob.  See  him  hum- 
bled in  the  dust  under  an  overwhelming  sense  of  his 
guilt,  and  voluntarily  prostrated  at  the  foot  of  the  cross. 
Emptied  of  all  reliance  on  his  own  righteousness,  and 


n 

easting  an  eye  of  trembling  faith  towards  that  of  the 
Redeemer,  he  becomes  a  supphant  for  mere  mercy ; 
and  commits  his  all  into  the  hands  of  Sovereign  love. 
From  this  period,  light  arises  to  him  in  the  midst  of  the 
darkness,  by  which  he  was  surrounded.  Hope,  serene, 
mild,  and  cheerful,  as  a  morning  of  Paradise,  dawns  upon 
his  anxious  mind ;  and  a  beam  of  mercy  plays  around 
his  broken  heart.  The  rebel  has  now  become  a  peni- 
tent, and  a  disciple.  The  prodigal  has  fled  from  the 
wilderness  of  famine  and  despair ;  and  in  all  his  rags 
and  wretchedness  is  tracing  his  weary  way  to  the  house 
of  his  father,  the  mansion  of  everlasting  peace,  abund- 
ance, and  delight.  Instinctively  he  cries  out,  at  the 
distant  sight  of  this  Glorious  Being,  *'''  Father,  I  have 
sinned  against  heaven,  and  before  thee  ;  and  am  no  more 
worthy  to  be  called  thy  son.  Make  me  as  one  of  thy 
hired  servants^  •  Angels  have  renewed  their  joy,  to 
see  an  immortal  mind,  once  lost  to  the  divine  kingdom, 
found  again.  The  assembly  of  the  first  born  have  be- 
held with  transport  an  Intelligent  creature,  once  hope- 
lessly dead,  again  alive,  to  live  forever.  Trace  this  re- 
newed child  pf  Adam  through  the  remainder  of  his  life ; 
struggling,  feebly  indeed,  but  faithfully,  in  the  honor- 
able conflict  against  lust,  and  sin,  and  Satan,  and 
through  the  grace  of  God  struggling  with  success. 
Behold  him  a  child  of  the  Highest ;  a  follower  of  the 
Lamb ;  a  blessing  to  himself ;  and  a  blessing  to  man- 
kind; throughout  his  earthly  pilgrimage.  Accompany 
him  to  his  dying  bed;  a  place,  to  the  wicked,  curtained 
with  terror,remorse,andagony,and  openingtothat  melan- 
choly region,  which  is  overspread  with  the  blackness  of 


darkness  forever.  Here,  sustained  by  an  unseen,  Al- 
mighty hand,  self  approved,  approved  of  God,  his  soul 
stands  on  the  awful  verge  of  eternity,  serene,  collected, 
superior  to  alarm,  and  smiling  in  conscious  safety.  At 
the  call  of  its  Maker,  awful  but  delightful,  it  bids  a 
cheerful  adieu  to  these  regions  of  sin  and  sorrow ;  and, 
stretching  its  pinions  for  its  final  home,  wings  its  flight 
through  the  immeasurable  vast,  directed  by  an  unerring 
and  invisible  Guide,  to  the  place  of  its  happy  destina- 
tion. Burst  the  veil,  which  hides  the  unseen  world 
from  mortal  eyes ;  and  follow  this  renovated  man  to  the 
bar  of  God.  Listen,  while  the  awful  Judge  pronounces, 
"  Well  done,  good  and  faithful  servant.  Thou  hast  been 
faithful  (wer  a  fexv  things :  I  will  make  thee  Ruler  over 
many  things;  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy  hoRD,^^ 
Pursue  his  entrance  into  that  happy  world.  See  the 
gates  of  life  open  to  receive  him.'  Hear  the  songs 
of  transport  and  triumph,  and  survey  with  hum- 
ble adoration  the  smiles  of  infinite  complacency, 
which  welcome  his  arrival.  Behold  him  begin  the  im- 
mortal career  of  wisdom,  virtue,  glory,  and  felicity; 
and  unceasingly  advance  from  this  happy  goal  in  the 
ascending  progress  towards  perfection.  See  him  day 
by  day  brighter,  and  better,  and  happier ;  more  lovely 
in  the  sight  of  God  ;  a  richer  blessing  to  the  universe  ; 
a  more  glorious  ornament  to  the  divine  kingdom; 
through  ages,  which  cannot  end.  Of  all  these  wonder- 
ful blessings,  and  of  preventing  the  evils  of  endless  sin 
and  endless  woe ;  the  wretched  character,  and  dreadful 
reward,  of  the  impenitent ;  Ministers  are  the  chief  in- 
struments in  the  hand  of   God.     How  immense  is  the 


23 

evil  prevented,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  good  achieved 
on  the  other  ?  Extend  both  considerations  to  hundreds, 
to  thousands,  to  milhons,  of  immortal  beings ;  and  you 
cannot  fail  to  feel  the  nature,  the  importance,  the  glory, 
of  the  pastoral  office. 

In  this  solemn  and  sublime  object,  of  importance  lit- 
erally boundless,  you  cannot  but  find  motives,  which 
acknowledge  no  limit,  to  the  vigorous  and  faithful  dis- 
charge of  your  professional  duties.  To  these  motives 
let  me  add  others,  to  animate  you,  and  all  those  who  have 
embarked  with  you  in  this  delightful  purpose.  Who 
have  given  birth  to  this  school  of  Christ  ?  A  small,  a 
very  small  number  of  Individuals;  who  have  thus 
evangelically  testified,  that  Go  d  has  not  showered  wealth 
upon  them  in  vain.  This  honourable  disposal  of  prop- 
erty I  know  not  how  sufficiently  to  commend  :  while 
delicacy,  perhaps,  would  on  this  occasion,  forbid  me  to 
commend  it  at  all.  In  justice  to  my  own  feelings,  I 
cannot  avoid  saying,  that  it  is  property  nobly  consecrat- 
ed to  God,  to  Christianity,  to  the  salvation  of  mankind. 
Nor  can  I  hesitate  to  believe,  that  the  praise  of  the  Do- 
nors is  already  in  a  great  part  of  the  Churches  in  this 
land ;  or  that  the  Children  of  many  generations  will  rise 
up,  and  call  them  blessed.  Can  this  bright  example  of 
love  to  the  souls  of  men  be,  for  a  moment,  out  of  sight 
to  you,  or  any  of  your  coadjutors  in  this  benevolent 
design-? 

The  present,  wonderful  ^Era  in  the  affairs  of  men 
furnishes  also  a  combination  of  the  most  solemn  in- 
ducements to  every  faithful  exertion  in  this  sacred  busi- 
ness.    The  ancient  estabUshments,  civil,  literary,  and 


24 

religious,  -  of  the  Old  World  are,  to  a  great  extent, 
crumbling  into  ruins.  The  throne  of  the  Romish  Hier- 
arch  is  shaken  to  its  base.  The  tottering  mosque  of 
Mahommedism  announces  its  own  approaching  fall. 
What  a  multitude  of  crowns  have  already  vanished, 
how  many  republics  have  been  wiped  away,  from  the 
fi.ce  of  the  earth  ?  Look  at  the  kingdoms,  which  once, 
like  the  cedars  of  Lebanon,  exalted  themselves  above 
all  the  trees  of  tJie  field.  The  strangers^  the  terrible  of 
the  nations^  Imve  cut  them  off;  and  the  people  of  the 
earth  have  gone  down  from  their  shadow.  Look  upon 
their  cities,  they  have  been  searched  with  candles. 
Their  goods  have  become  a  booty ;  and  their  houses  a 
desolation.  Look  at  their  Princes  and  Nobles.  Their 
Kings  have  gone  into  captivity;  their  Priests  and  their 
Princes  together.  They  have  called  the  jVobles  to  the 
kingdom  ;  but  none  were  there  ;  and  their  Princes  have 
become  nothing.  Look  to  their  fields.  They  are  wto- 
ened  with  human  bones ;  they  are  drenched  with  hu- 
man blood.  Mark  the  tempest  which  lowers  in  the 
eastern  skirt  of  the  heavens.  The  Lord  hath  his  way 
in  the  whirlwind  and  in  the  storm  ;  and  the  clouds  are 
the  dust  of  his  feet.  He  rebuketh  the  sea^  and  maketh  it 
dry  ;  and  drieth  up  all  the  rivers.  Bashan  languisheth^ 
and  Carmel^  and  the  fiower  of  Lebanon  languisheth. 
The  mountains  quake  at  him^  and  the  hills  melt ;  and 
the  earth  is  burnt  at  his  presence :  yea,  the  world  and 
all  that  dwell  therein. 

In  this  terrible  day,  as  in  every  other,  the  church  of 
God  is  the  safeguard  of  mankind ;  the  salt^  w^hich keeps 
this  putrid  world  from  absolute  corruption.     For  its 


2'5 

safety,  its  peace,  and  its  prosperity,  at  all  times  the  firsi* 
objects  of  benevolent  exertion,  and  the  most  dear  to  the 
heart  of  piety,  peculiar  efforts  are  now  demanded  ;  ef- 
forts, proportioned  in  their  vigour  to  the  greatness  of 
the  danger.  There  is  not  a  single  reason  for  discour- 
agement. The  gates  of  hell  cannot  prevail.  The  enemy 
will^  indeed,  come  in  like  ajiood;  but  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  will  as  certainly  lift  up  a  standard  against  him. 

Such  a  standard  is  already  lifted  up.  Gloomy  and 
dreadful  as  is  the  aspect  of  the  political  horizon,  the 
Christian  world  has  already  roused  itself  from  the  slum- 
bers of  two  centuries,  and  with  a  spirit  of  prayer,  zeal, 
and  liberality,  scarcely  exampled,  has  wafted  the  Bible 
to  distant  nations,  and  planted  missions  in  the  region' 
and  shadow  of  death.  In  the  East  and  the  West,  the 
North  and  the  South,  a  field  so  vast,  as  to  leave  the 
utmost  stretch  of  human  sight,  is  already  whitening  to 
the  harvest.  The  demand  for  faithful  labourers  mocks 
calculation.  "  Come  over  to  Macedonia,  and  help  uSy- 
is  audibly  resounded  from  the  four  ends  of  the  earth.. 
The  savages  of  the  West  advance  in  all  their  naked- 
ness, sin,  and  suffering  ;  and  exclaim,  "  When  shall 
the  nations,  which  sit  in  darkness,  behold  the  light  of  the 
Sun  of  Righteousness  ?  Ethiopia  already  stretches  forth 
}ier  hands  unto  God,  and  unto  his  Church.  The  na- 
tions of  the  East,  and  the  islands  of  the  sea,  already  wait 
for  his  law.  The  wilderness,  and  the  cities  thereof,  lift 
up  their  voice  ;  the  villages  that  Kedar  doth  inhabit  : 
the  inhabitants  of  the  rock  sing  ;  they  shout  from  the 
top  of  the  mountains. 


26 

For  Zioii's  sake^  my  Brethren,  let  us,  now,  not  hold 
our  peace  ;  for  Jerusalem's  sake  let  us  give  ourselves  no 
rest  ;  until  her  righteousness  go  forth  as  brightness^  and 
her  salvation  as  a  lamp  that  burneth.  On  the  efforts  of 
the  present  generation,  and  on  ours,  if  we  are  faithful, 
as  truly  as  on  those  of  others,  depend  the  knowledge, 
the  piet}%  the  salvation,  of  the  generations  yet  to  come. 
The  inheritance  of  those  who  are  unborn  is  by  the  Father 
of  the  universe  put  into  the  hands  of  the  Christians  of 
this  age,  to  be  preserved,  and  managed.  As  faithful 
stewards,  let  us  transmit  the  divine  patrimony,  not  im- 
paired, but  improved.  Let  them  see,  that  the  trust 
has  been  faithfully  discharged  ;  and  enter  upon  the 
possession,  unimpoverished  by  the  negligence,  or  fraud, 
and  enriched  by  the  diligence,  care,  and  integrity,  of 
those  who  have  gone  before  them. 

The  period,  my  Brethren,  is  hastenmg  ;  tlie  morn- 
ing stai'  will  soon  arise,  which  will  usher  in  that  illus- 
trious day,  destined  to  scatter  the  darkness  of  this 
melancholy  world,  and  cover  the  earth  with  light  and 
glory  ;  the  second  birth-day  of  truth,  righteousness, 
and  salvation.  Soon  shall  the  Church  awake,  and  put 
on  strength.  Soon  shall  she  be  clothed  with  beautiful 
garmejits.  Soon  shall  she  behold  God  coming  with 
vengeance,  even  our  God  with  a  recompense,  to  save 
her  from  all  her  enemies.  Soon  shall  peace  be  extend- 
ed to  her  as  a  river  ;  and  the  glory  of  the  Gentiles  as  a 
flowing  stream.  The  Jews,  provoked  to  jealousy,  and 
roused  from  the  torpor  of  eighteen  centuries,  shall  be- 
hold a  standard  lifted  up  among  the  nations,  and  an  en- 
sign among  the  people,  summoning  them  again  to  the 


27 

land  of  their  fathers,  and  to  the  kingdom  of  Go  d .  Obe- 
dient to  the  divine  call,  Judah  and  Ephraim,  no  more 
twain,  but  one,  shall  hasten  from  the  remotest  regions 
of  their  dispersion ;  and  the  receiving  of  them  be  to  the 
world  as  life  from  the  dead.  The  heathen,  with  one 
immense  and  united  sulFrage,  shall  cast  their  idols  to  the 
moles y  and  to  the  bats.  Holiness  to  the  Lord  shall  be 
written^  alike,  on  all  the  enjoyments,  and  all  the  pur- 
suits, of  man.  The  earth  shall  become  one  vast  tem- 
ple of  Jehovah  ;  and  it's  morning  and  evening  incense 
shall  be  wafted  to  heaven  by  the  whole  family  of  Mam. 

In  eifectuating  this  mighty  change,  this  universal 
renovation,  no  miracles  will  be  employed,  but  miracles 
of  grace.  The  grace  of  God,  the  true  alchemic  stone, 
which  transmutes  the  heart  of  rock  into  gold,  will  every 
where  accompany  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel,  and 
the  Evangelical  ministmtions  of  men.  Ministers,  in- 
structed unto  the  kingdom  of  heave?i,  faithful,  zealous, 
wisCy  and  thus  fitted  to  turn  many  to  righteousness,  will 
be  the  instruments,  by  which  the  Spirit  of  truth  will 
accomplish  this  divine  transformation.  To  form,  and 
furnish,  such  ministers,  therefore,  is  to  contribute  to 
this  glorious  work  ;  to  convey  the  blessing  down  to 
succeeding  ages,  and  to  the  remote  regions  of  the  earth ; 
to  awaken  the  song  of  transport  in  lands  yet  untravers- 
ed,  and  in  millions  yet  unborn ;  to  become  benefactors 
to  th6  nations  of  the  Millenium  ;  and  to  increase  the 
multitude,  the  happiness,  and  the  glory,  of  heaven. 

To  aid  this  exalted  purpose  what  labour  shall  be  spar- 
ed? Whose  prayers  shall  not  ascend  to  God  ?  Whose 
heart  shall  not  glow  with  benevolence  ?   Whose  arms 


28 

shall  not  be  strung  with  vigour  to  the  undertaking  f 
God  forbid,  that  any  of  those,  to  whom  either  the  in- 
struction, or  the  management,  of  this  Seminary  is  en- 
trusted, should  be  slothful,  negligent,  heartless,  prayer- 
less,  or  unfaithful,  in  the  sacred  trust.  On  this  solemn 
occasion,  can  we  hesitate,  my  Brethren,  to  yield  our- 
selves, as  a  free-will  offerings  unto  God  ?  Shall  we  not, 
with  the  spirit  of  the  Psalmist,  say  to  the  Church,  whose 
interests,  in  one  important  sense,  he  has  committed  to 
our  care,  *'  If  I  forget  thee^  O  Jerusalem^  let  my  right 
hand  forget  her  cunning  ;  let  my  tongue  cleave  to  the 
roof  of  my  mouth,'*'' 

With  the  same  views,  with  the  same  affections,  must 
this  school  of  Christ  be  regarded  by  the  inhabitants 
of  this  town,  and  its  vicinity.  In  the  midst  of  you,  my 
Friends  and  Brethren,  the  Creator  of  all  things  has  been 
pleased  to  plant  this  choice  vine.  Long  have  you  been 
favoured  with  peculiar  privileges.  God  has  been 
pleased  to  raise  up  in  the  midst  of  you  a  Family,  long 
distinguished  above  all  others,  in  this  land,  for  its  libe- 
rality to  Learning,  and  equally  devoted  to  the  interests 
of  Religion.*  The  blessings,  which  you  have  derived 
from  them,  added  to  the  innumerable  mercies  which 
God  has  poured  in  upon  you  from  other  sources,  have 
made  your  lot  eminently  desirable.  The  infinite  Bene- 
factor is  now  givmg  you  a  singular  token  of  his 
goodness.  This  plants  we  trust,  our  heavenly  Fattier 
hath  planted.  I  need  not  tell  you,  that  it  can  never 
flourish  in  a  moral  wilderness  ;  nor  that  its  proper  seat 
is  a  well  watered  garden^  a  fruitful  field  which  the  Lord 

*  The  family  of  Phillips.- 


29 

hath  planted.  Let  every  thing  around  it  become  as 
Eden,  Let  your  morals,  and  your  communications, 
be  such,  as,  instead  of  corrupting,  shall  improve,  and 
purify,  those  of  the  youths,  who  shall  be  sent  for  edu- 
cation to  this  school  of  the  Prophets.  Let  the  flame 
of  Piety,  kindled  all  around  them,  warm  their  hearts 
with  love  to  God,  to  their  Ministry,  and  to  the  salva- 
tion of  their  fellow- men. 

With  you,  with  us,  all  good  men,  who  become  ac- 
quainted with  the  nature  and  design  of  this  Institution, 
will  unite  their  best  wishes,  and  their  fervent  prayers, 
for  its  prosperity,  and  for  its  happy  influence  on  the 
salvation  of  mankind.  That  God  may  smile,  that  the 
dews  of  heaven  may  descend,  upon  it,  who,  that  loves 
Religion,  can  fail  earnestly  to  wish,  and  unceasingly 
to  pray,  O  thou  Father  of  all  mercies^  and  God  of 
all  gracey  bow  thine  heavens,  and  come  down.  Delight 
to  dwell  here,  and  command  here,  from  generation  to 
generation,  thy  peculiar  blessing,  even  life  for  ever  more  ; 
through  Jesus  Christ,  thy  beloved  Son,  and  our  Sa- 
viour.        Amen. 


THE 

CHARGE. 

BY  THE  REV.  JONATHAN  FRENCH.. 

There  are  but  few  transactions  among  men,  in  their 
nature  and  consequences  more  solemn  and  important, 
than  that  of  consecrating  a  person  to  the  sacred  work 
of  the  gospel  ministry,  as  a  servant  of  the  most  high 
God,  to  show  unto  men  the  way  of  salvation. 

The  consecrating  prayer  and  the  laying  on  of  the 
hands  of  the  Presbytery  are  perhaps  the  only  rites, 
essential  to  this  solemn  transaction.  From  the  first  ages 
of  Christianity,  however,  a  solemn  charge  or  exhortation 
has  usually  been  given  to  the  person  ordained.  Having, 
agreeably  to  antient  usage,  performed  these  rites,  we 
now  declare  you.  Dr.  Eliphalet  Pearson,  "to  be 
**  ordained  and  set  apart  to  the  work  of  the  gospel  min- 
"  istry,  in  whatever  part  of  the  vineyard  of  the  Lor0 
"  the  great  Head  of  the  Church  may  occasionally  call 
"  you  to  labour."  In  particular,  you  are  to  co-operate 
with  other  Professors,  in  the  newly  founded  Theolo^ 
GiCAL  Institution,  in  which,  it  is  contemplated,  a 
Church  will  in  time  be  gathered  and  established. 

We  now,  reverend  and  dear  Sir,  solemnly  exhort 
you  before  God,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  his 
elect  Angels,  to  take  heed  unto  thyself,  and  to  the  peo* 
pie  of  God,  to  whom  you  may  be  called  to  minister  ; 
to  feed  them,  with  tlie  sincere  milk  of  the  word.     Shun 


32 

*■ 

not  to  declare  the  whole  counsel  of  God.  Keep  noth- 
ing back,  that  may  be  profitable  to  them,  who  shall  hear 
you.  Put  on  the  whole  armour  of  Go  d.  Hold  fast  the 
faithful  word,  that  you  may  be  able  both  to  exhort  and 
to  convince  gainsayers.  By  manifestation  of  the  Truth 
endeavour  to  commend  yourself  to  every  mans  con- 
science in  the  sight  of  God.  In  imitation  of  our  divine 
Master,  the  meek  and  humble  Jesus,  be  clothed  with 
humility  ;  and  may  you  enter  on  the  arduous  duties  of 
your  office,  strengthened  with  the  armour  of  righteous- 
ness on  the  right  hand  and  on  the  left.  Be  sensible  of 
your  continual  need  of  divine  light  and  grace:  Seek 
continually  the  truth  of  the  gospel,  and  with  energy 
defend  and  propagate  it  against  the  attacks  of  infidelity, 
in  what  form  soever  it  may  appear.  Be  watchful  against 
the  numerous  errors,  which  prevail,  and  are  levelled 
against  pure  morality,  true  piety,  and  the  very  founda- 
tion of  unadulterated  Christianity.  Be  vigilant,  be  zeal- 
ous, remembering  that,  while  men  slept,  the  enemy 
sowed  tares. 

Preach  the  word,  not  as  a  man  pleaser,  but  with  sin- 
gleness of  heart.  Amuse  not  your  hearers  with  unedi- 
fying  speculations  or  questions,  which  only  engender 
strife.  Though,  when  called  to  alarm  the  hardened 
sinner,  you  are  with  the  energy  of  St.  Paul,  knowing  the 
terrors  of  the  Lord,  to  persuade  men;  yet  be  thou  to 
the  returning  sinner,  like  Barnabas,  a  son  of  consolation. 
Assail  the  hosts  of  infidelity  with  the  boldness  and  res- 
olution of  Boanerges ;  but  to  them,  who  love  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  in  sincerity,  exhibit  the  mild,  the  en- 
gaging temper  and  affection  of  that  disciple,  who  leaned 


33 

on  Jesus'  bosom.  In  all  your  discourses  remember 
the  momentous  consequences  of  what  you  deliver,  that 
the  word  will  be  a  savour  of  life  unto  life,  or  of  death 
unto  death. 

If  called  to  invest  others  with  the  sacred  office  of  the 
ministry,  remember  the  solemn  injunction  of  the  Apos- 
tle ;  /*  lay  hands  suddenly  on  no  man,  neither  be  par- 
"  taker  of  other  men's  sins."  You  are  now  authorized 
to  administer  the  ordinances  of  baptism  and  the  Lor  d's 
supper  to  proper  subjects.  Wherever  you  are  called 
to  minister,  bless  the  people  in  the  name  of  the  Lord. 

In  managing  the  discipline  of  the  Church,  wherever" 
this  may  be  incumbent  on  you,  regard  the  rules  pre- 
scribed, and  the  examples  exhibited,  by  our  divine 
Saviour  and  his  Apostles.  Do  nothing  by  partiality  ; 
but,  as  circumstances  may  require,  reprove,  rebuke, 
and  exhort  with  all  long  suffering  and  patience.  Do 
the  work  of  an  Evangelist  in  all  things,  and  make  full 
proof  of  thy  ministry.  Often  peruse,  and  strictly  ob- 
serve, the  solemn  charges,  written  by  inspired  men  and 
recorded  in  the  sacred  word.  Discharge  the  duties  of 
your  office  with  that  meekness,  seriousness,  and  good 
fidelity,  which  the  gospel  requires. 

As  you  and  your  colleague  Professors  are  to  be 
heads  in  this  new  School  for  raising  up  of  our  sons 
for  Prophets,  and  of  our  young  men  for  Nazarites ;  great, 
very  -great,  will  be  the  weight  of  duty  incumbent  on 
you.  The  glorious  gospel,  you  are  called  to  teach,  ^vas 
accounted  foolishness  by  the  learned  Greeks,  and  is  still 
scornfully  termed  foolishness  by  a  vain  philosophy,  and 
science  falsely  so  called.     It  becomes  jou  to  consecrate 


34 

your  literature  and  talents  to  the  important  purpose  of 
shomng  that  the  religion,  which  the  scriptures  reveal, 
is  most  consistent  with  true  philosophy  ;  a  science, 
which  reason  approves  ;  and  the  power  of  God,  and 
the  wisdom  of  God  for  salvation,  to  every  one,  that 
believeth. 

From  your  known  character,  age,  capacity,  erudition, 
and  experience,  much  will  be  justly  expected  of  you  ; 
the  eyes  of  thousands  will  be  upon  you.  The  eyes  of 
the  benevolent  Founders  and  Benefactors  of  this  Insti- 
tution ;  the  eyes  of  its  Visitors  and  Trustees,  the  eyes 
of  the  Clerg\%  the  eyes  of  the  friends  and  of  the  enemies 
of  religion,  will  be  upon  you.  Moreover  the  eyes  of 
the  elect  Angels,  of  the  blessed  Jesus,  and  the  eternal 
God,  will  be  upon  you.  Impressed  with  a  sense  of 
this  high  responsibiUty,  be  thou  faithful  unto  deatli ; 
and  may  the  blessing  of  thousands  come  upon  thee. 

Amen. 


THE 

RIGHT  HAND  OF  FELLOWSHIP. 

BY  THE  REV.  JEDIDIAH  MORSE,  D.  D. 

Singular  m  the  history  of  our  country  aiid  inter- 
esting in  a  high  degree  to  the  friends  of  the  Redeemer, 
are  the  transactions  of  this  day.  A  new  era  in  our 
Churches  now  commences ;  and  events  may  be  ex- 
pected to  follow,  of  incalculable  moment  to  their  purity 
and  prosperity.  A  new  Institution,  the  offspring  of 
Christian  liberality,  broad  and  scriptural  in  its  founda- 
tion, richly  endowed,  consecrated  to  the  interests  of 
Evangelical  truth,  rises  to  bless  our  country. 

From  the  days  of  Samuel  the  prophet  Theological 
Institutions  have  existed  in  the  world,  whose  object 
has  been  to  educate  young  men,  of  competent  talents 
and  piety,  for  the  sacred  work  of  instructing  their  fel- 
low men  in  the  doctrines  and  duties  of  the  true  Re- 
ligion. 

The  men  appointed  over  the  first  schools  of  the 
prophet  as  Samuel,  Elijah,  and  Elisha,  were  men  di- 
vinely taught  of  God,  and  by  Him  ordained  to  the  sa- 
cred and  responsible  office.  They  and  their  pupils 
sustained  toward  each  other  the  endearing  relation  of 
fathers  and  sons.  My  father^  my  father^  exclaim- 
ed Elisha,  when  he  beheld  Elijah  his  master  ascend- 
ing to  heaven  in  a  chariot  of  fire ;   having  been  fore- 


35 

warned  of  the  event  by  the  sons  of  the  prophets^  who 
were  at  the  school  in  Jericho. 

Having  before  them  this  example  of  the  character  of 
the  Professors  in  the  first  Theological  Institutions,  es- 
tablished under  divine  direction,  the  Associate  Found- 
ers have  wisely  provided  in  their  Statutes,  that  their 
Professors  shall  be  ordained  Ministers  of  the  GospeL 
Their  appointment  has  fallen  on  a  man,  whom  the  pub- 
lic voice  has  designated  to  the  high  and  responsible  of- 
fice, with  which  he  is  this  day  to  be  publicly  invested. 
His  age,  experience,  and  acquirements  in  human  and 
sacred  literature,  qualify  him  peculiarly  to  be  a  Father 
in  this  infant,  but  promising  Institution ;  and  also  to 
minister  in  holy  things,  and  to  break  the  bread  of  life, 
to  the  sons  of  the  prophets,  whom  Providence  shall 
place  under  his  instruction ;  and  to  others,  as  he  shall 
have  opportunity. 

This  day,  my  dear  Brother,  forms  an  interesting 
epoch  in  your  life.  Your  mind,  in  reviewing  the  past 
and  in  contemplating  the  future,  must  be  filled  with  va- 
rious emotions  of  thankfulness  and  solicitude.  Won- 
derful has  been  the  past;  pregnant  with  great  events  is 
the  future.  The  Lord  hath  prospered  and,  we  confi- 
dently trust,  will  prosper,  an  Institution,  which  you 
have  been  eminently  instrumental,  with  others,  in  rais- 
ing to  advance  his  glory,  and  the  best  good  of  mankind. 
Unceasing  praise  be  to  His  great  name. 

''  It  is  a  true  saying.  If  a  man  desire  the  office  of  a 
bishop,  he  desiretha  good  work.''  This  sacred  workj 
my  Brother,  was  your  early  choice  ;  and  though,  after  a 


36 

few  years  employment  in  it,  as  a  candidate,  Providence 
directed  you  to  occupy,  for  nearly  thirty  years,  different, 
but  honourable  spheres  of  usefulness;  yet,  during  that 
period,  you  have  not  ceased  to  desire  the  office,  which 
you  originally  contemplated.  This  desire,  though  not 
in  the  way  which  you  had  preferred ;  yet  in  the  better 
way,  as  we  hope,  which  divine  Providence  has  prescrib- 
ed, is  now  accomplished.  You  have  received  ordination 
to  the  sacred  work  of  the  gospel  ministry,  by  the  laying 
on  of  the  hands  of  the  Presbytery. 

Perceiving  the  qualifications  and  gifts  with  which  the 
grace  of  God  hath  furnished  you,  for  preaching  the  un- 
searchable riches  of  Clirist,  and  for  ti'aining  up  young 
men  for  the  like  office ;  the  Council,  convened  for  your 
ordination,  have  directed  me,  in  their  name,  to  give  you 
the  Right  Hand  of  Fellowship.  Take,  therefore,  my 
Brother,  this  right  hand.  Receive  it  as  a  symbol  of  our 
personal  friendship.  Receive  it  also,  and  especially,  as 
our  acknowledgment  that  you  sustain,  equally  with  us 
who  are  ordained  to  preach  the  gospel,  the  office  of  a 
minister  of  Jesus  Clirist ;  and  that  you  are  invested  with 
all  the  privileges  and  authority  belonging  to  the  sacred 
function.  By  this  friendly  token  we  bid  you  welcome, 
as  a  fellow  labourer  in  the  vineyard  of  our  common  Lord. 
We  doubt  not,  that  you  will  cheerfully  reciprocate  all 
Christian  acts  of  kindness  and  assistance,  which  are  ap- 
propriate to  this  honourable  office. 

We  have  witnessed  the  diligence  and  ability,  with  which 
you  have  discharged  arduous  and  complicated  duties, 
})elonging  to  the  respectable  stations,  which  you  have  al- 


37 

ready  filled.  This  furnishes  a  satisfying  pledge  of  your 
future  fidelity  in  the  still  more  important  offices,  which 
you  now  sustain. 

We  rejoice  that  God,  in  his  wise  and  good  Provi- 
dence, has  assigned  this  favoured  spot,  as  the  place  of 
your  residence,  and  honoured  you  as  one  of  the  princi- 
pal agents  in  founding  this  School  of  the  prophets* 
May  the  Church,  which  is  to  be  here  established  and 
placed  under  the  joint  care  of  the  Professors,  become  as 
a  well  watered,  skilfully  cultivated,  and  plentifully  fur- 
nished, nursery  for  our  American  Churches ;  from 
whence  shall  be  successively  transplanted  Trees  of  Right  - 
eousness;  Plants  of  renown^  which  shall  flourish  and 
bear  abundance  of  the  fruits  of  holiness,  in  the  courts 
of  our  God. 

May  you,  dear  Sir,  your  fellow  Professors,  and  your 
pupils  ;  may  the  Trustees  and  Visitors  of  this  Institu- 
tion, and  its  venerable  and  respected  Founders,  contin- 
ually enjoy  the  presence,  direction,  and  blessing  of  the 
great  Head  of  the  Church. 

Were  the  departed  spirits  of  those  Worthies,  who  in 
their  heaven- inspired  wisdom  and  pious  charities,  in  the 
name  of  Jehovah,  laid  broad  the  foundation,  of  this  lit- 
erary and  religious  Seminary,  and  consecrated  it  to  His 
honour ; — were  the  venerable  spirits  of  these  men  now 
present  with  us,  (and  who  can  say  they  are  not)  and  wit- 
nesses of  the  transactions  of  tliis  day ;  doubtless  they 
would  mingle  their  praises  with  ours,  to  the  God  of 
heaven  and  of  earth.  Most  cordially  would  they  join 
their  prayers  with  ours  to  Him,  in  whom  dwelleth  all  ful- 


38 

ness  of  grace,  that  blessings  in  abundance  may  be  pour- 
ed down  from  above,  on  this  hitherto  prospered  Institu- 
tion, that  so  its  increasing  influence  may  be  purifying 
and  healtliful  to  the  Churches  of  Christ ;  be  deeply  and 
happily  felt  in  every  part  of  our  land,  and  endure,  as  the 
Sun  and  the  Moon,  forever  and  ever.     Amen. 


U4    , 


C/^ 


mmt 


^^a^>^5!xx>-s. 


^Jv'.JeJjSiJiJ 

s^ 

^^^^3 

^^3^ 

^^ 

^K  ^^8 

S^» 

^^Kzi 

!>>3S1I>>U>3> 


31>lS6>3)  T> 


^%»HI: 


^>  2>3   3>  3 


■>'^^85t>'3'^"' 

JB" 

J^>^> 

^Z^iE^ 

'C^ 

''i^fs^y^-' 

"J3>5 

5~JBS»  ^^3)  3^ 

'^p:52?- 

>/ 

^^S3> 

)j^>5)9^>^^ 

^ 

^»'i^:^>- 

)^../ 

>]>?5i»->v^-: 

>>   > 

:»  >-  >^»  ^:»  ^:^'  3):»  >jj>-  3: 


2]&:^v5n^ 


a5>;^>^^>>  >JI^>>:^1> 


?.^5S 


:»>o^>> 


o>:^>>>^_ 


5». .«  3>)  -:^S>5^  5 


' :  -^*^^^'^'^^ 


o »  >^> :»  5]»>  >^^  ^^  ^ 


>  >v  >x> :»  z>  ^  >»  >:>5  ^  »  o     5"^ 
)>  'y>z>  5> J>,>  £5> ^  » ' >      "L 


T>  o:?>)>is^>'j>?^  .^OK^ 


>3^05) 


3>3 

3Si 


33a>  ^ZJe'-^  ?>:> 


«^^ 


^ifi^^P5^> 


p  .1JP>J» 


%ir3ss^  y 


^^ia>:^^5&>.s 


X2>  >3>_^> 


^^^ 


^ 


^3^ 


p^3^~3 


M 


^ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

w, 

IJiifc  > 

P 

':^^>  ■  jjKK»:>  :a.s. 


