Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 



t 



Tappan Presbyt«rian 
Ass ooiation 



i r 



1 






i 




-4 K*-AA-^trt>%^i< 



O^W +-~ J (vaw^/-*- ~\ 



.-(fc1 



THE 



SERMON, 



—23 V" 
.7*75 6 5' 



Delivered at 



THE INAUGURATION 



OF THS 



REV. ARCHIBALD ALEXANDER, D. D. 

AS PROFESSOR OF DIDACTIC AND POLEMIC THEOLOGY, 

IN THE 

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY OP THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, 

IN 

THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 

TO' WHICH ARE ADDED, THE 

PROFESSOR'S INAUGURAL ADDRESS, 

AND 

THE CHARGE 



■i ^ 

* • 



TO 



THE PROFESSOR AND STUDENTS. 



PUBLISHED BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS. 



NEW-YORK: 



PUBLISHED BY WHITING AND WATSON, THEOLOGICAL AND 

CLASSICAL BOOKSELLERS, NO. 96, BROADWAY. 

J. Seymour* printer. 

1812. 



^N 



7i++>+~7?L*+J,&4+rx,^ 



£ 3-^-33 






e Extract from the minutes of the Board of Directors of 
the Theological Seminary of the Presbyterian Church, at 
Princeton, August 12th, 1812. 

THE Directors of the Tlteohgical Seminary, 
desirous of making known to the christian public 
the views and designs with which the Institution un- 
der their care has been founded, and is now open for 
the reception of pupils; and believing that these 
views and designs cannot be better explained, than 
< by the publication of the Discourses this day de- 
livered, at tJie Inauguration of the first Professor : 

Resolved, that the tJianks of this board be given 
to the Directors and Professor who delivered those 
Discourses, and that they be requested to furnish co- 
pies for tfte press. 

Dr. Bomeyn and Mr. Zachariah Lewis were ap- 
pointed a committee to superintend the printing, dis- 
tribution, and sale of the impression. 

A true extract, 

JOHN Mc DOWELL, SeSry. 

1& 



*•■* .J 



/ SIX 



? 



; 



THE 

DUTY OF THE CHURCH 

TO TAKE MEASURES FOR PROVIDING 

AN ABLE AND FAITHFUL MINISTRY 



SERMON, 

DELIVERED AT PRINCETON, AUGUST 12, 1812, 

AT THE 

■ 

INAUGURATION 

OF THE 

REV. ARCHIBALD ALEXANDER, D.D. 

AS PROFESSOR 07 DIDACTIC AND POLEMIC THEOLOGY, 

IN THE 

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY OP THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH, 



BY 

SAMUEL MILLER, D D. 

PASTOR QB THE CHURCH I IT WALL-STREET, VEW-YORK; 



THE 



i 



DUTY OF THE CHURCH, 

8$c. 



2 Tim. ii. 2. 

And the things which thou hast heard of me, among many 
witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall 
be able to teach others also. 



The apostle Paul received both his knowledge 
of the Gospel, and his commission to preach it, im- 
mediately from the great Head of the church. Yet, 
notwithstanding the extraordinary circumstances 
which attended his theological instruction, and his 
official investiture, that all things might be done de- 
cently and in order, he submitted to the laying an 
of the hands of tJte Presbytery, before he went 
forth on his great mission to the gentiles* In like 
manner, Timothy, his own son in the faith, to whom 
the exhortation before us is addressed, was set 
apart to the work of the holy ministry, by the 
Presbytery, in which body, on that occasion, the 
Apostle himself seems to have presided*. Timothy 
was now at Ephestis ; and being the most active 

* Compare 1 Tim. iv. 14. with 2 Timu i. 6. 



( 8 ) 

and influential member of the Presbytery which was 
constituted in that part of the church, his spiritual 
father directed to him, as such, and in him to the 
church in all succeeding times, the rules and in- 
structions contained in the Epistles which bear his 
name. Among these we find the passage which 
has just been read : And the things which thou hast 
heard of me, among many witnesses, the same com- 
mit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach 
others also. 

It is impossible, within the limits of a single dis- 
course, to do justice to a portion of scripture 
replete with such various and important matter, 
as the slightest attention will discover in this 
text Of course, much of what properly belongs 
to its illustration, must be either wholly omitted, 

« 

or very briefly noticed, on the present occasion. 
That the Christian Ministry is an institution of 
Jesus Christ ; that this institution is essential, not 
only to tliQ well-being, but also to the very exis- 
tence of the church, as an organized body ; that 
Christ has promised that there shall always be a 
succession of ministers in his church, to the end of 
the world ;. and that none have a right to enter on 
the appropriate functions of this sacred office, with- 
out having that right formally and officially " com- 
mitted" to them, by men who are themselves al- 
ready in the same office; are great, elementary 
principles of ecclesiastical order, which are all fair- 



I 



( » ) 

ly implied in the passage before us ; but which, I 
trust, it is not necessary for me to attempt either* 
to establish or to illustrate before this audience. 
They are so plainly laid down in scripture, and 
~" so evidently reasonable in themselves, that I shall, 
at present, take them for granted* 

Neither will it be deemed necessary, at present, 
to dwell on the numerous and important benefits of 
an able and faithful ministry. It may be said, with- 
out exaggeration, that every interest of man is in- 
volved in this blessing. The order, comfort, and 
edification of the church ; the progress in know- 
, ledge, the growth in grace, and the consolation of in- 
dividual believers; the regularity, peace, polish, 
and strength of civil society ; the extension of in- 
tellectual and moral cultivation ; the glory of God ; 
and the eternal welfare of men; are among the 
great benefits which an able and faithful ministry is, 
ordinarily, the means of promoting; and which, 
without such a ministry, we cannot hope to 
attain, at least in any considerable degree. If it 
be acknowledged that the sanctions of religion 
exert a mighty, and most benign influence on the 
order and happiness of society; if the observ- 
ance of the christian sabbath be as really a blessing 
to the world as it is to the church ; if the solemni- 
ties of public worship, be a source of moral and 
temporal benefit to millions, who give no evidence 

of a saving acquaintance with the power of the 

2 



( 






ituted in that j t 
r directed lol i y 

V 



and influential memty 

constituted 

father 

church in all ff 

structions coiy r 

name. Ar 

has just V 

heard c 

mil th 

othe 



then 



7' 

j!r„, 



j upon a people. 
ot heaven, are. likely^ 
u> be beneficial, in pro- 
ess, the force, the wisdom, and 
a: which they are exhibited, as both 
unse and the word of God , evidently die-, 
tften k is plain, that the more able and. the 
iyre faithful that ministry, with which any people 
ia blessed, the more extensive and important are 
Jikely to be the benefits resulting from it, both to the 
church and the world. The father of a family, as 
well as the professor of religion, has reason to de- 
sire the attainment of such a ministry. The patriot, 
as well as the christian, ought earnestly to wish> 
and be ready to contribute his aid, that the* church 
may obey the precept of her head and Lord: the 
same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be 
able to teach otJiers also. 



foay*- that the Chuuch may obey this divine pre- 
cept ; for it is, undoubtedly, a mistake, and a very 
grievous mistake, to imagine, as many seem to 
imagine, that precepts of thekind before us, are> 



addressed to minist 
Ht ministers are t 



V* in which the 
hose who are the painful mi* 

: and *ot V ^ hing ^ ^ 

^sted hopes 



and tot 
which t" 



r l0 ^ **, fa*. 

_ ^ > Tavat- 

i which ihey iv x * .,. 

^rvice. £ If, therefore, as * 
allow, the design of the precept 
cease with Timothy : if both its reaso. 
ligation be permanent; then the church 01 
at this hour, is to consider it as directed to her. 
is the Church that is bound to take order, that wh^ 
she has received be committed to faithful men, nth* 
shall ¥>e able to teach others also* 

'The doctrine of our text, then, is, THAT it is 
the indispensable duty of the church of 
Christ, in all ages, to take measures for 
providing an able and faithful ministry. 

The great fact, that this is ihe duty of (he 
Church, I shall consider as sufficiently established 
by the plain and unequivocal precept before us ; 
and shall employ the time that remains for the pre- 
sent discourse, in inquiring, 

What we are to understand by an able and faith- 
ful Ministry ? And, 



CM) 

What are the means which the Church is bound 
to employ for providing such a Ministry P 

I. What are we to understand by an 

ABLE AND FAITHFUL MINISTRY ? 

It is a ministry, at once qualified and disposed to 
perform, with enlightened and unwearied assiduity, 
all the duties, whether of instruction, of defence, or 
of discipline, which belong to ambassadors of 
Christ, to pastors, and rulers in his church. 

This general character implies Piety, Ta- 
lents, Learning, and Diligence, 

1. The first requisite to form a faithful and 
able minister, is Piety. By this I mean, that he 
be a regenerated man ; that he have a living faith 
in that Saviour whom he preaches to others ; that 
the love of Christ habitually constrain him; that 
he have himself walked in those paths of humility, 
self-denial, and holy communion with God, through 
our Lord Jesus Christ, in which it is the business of 
his life to endeavour to lead his fellow-men. 

I shall not now speak of the necessity of piety, 
to a minister's personal salvation j nor of its ines- 
timable importance to his personal comfort. I shall 
not dwell on the irksomeness, nay, the intolerable 



( 13 ) 

drudgery, of labouring in a vocation in which the 
heart does not go along ; nor On the painful mis- 
givings which must ever attend preaching an un- 
known Saviour, and recommending untasted hopes 
and joys. Neither shall I attempt to describe, tre- 
mendous and overwhelming as it is, the aggravat- 
ed doom of that man, who, from the heights of this 
sacred office, shall sink into the abyss of the damn- 
ed ; who, after having preached to others, shall him- 
self bttrnne a cast-away*. But my object is, to 
show the importance, and the necessity, of this best 
of all attainments, in order to qualify any man for 
discharging the duties of the ministerial office. It 
is to show, that, without piety, he cannot be an able 
minister. He cannot be a workman, that needeth 
not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of 
r truth, and giving to each his portion in due sea- 
' sonf. 

How can a man who knows only the theory 
of religion, undertake to be a practical guide 
in spiritual things? How can he adapt his in- 
structions to all the varieties of christian ex- 
j periehce ? How can he direct the awakened, the 
inquiring, the tempted, and the doubting ? How 
can he feed the sheep and the lambs of Christ ? 
How can he sympathize with mourners in Zion ? 
How can he comfort others with those consolations 

* 1 Cor. ix. 27. t 2 Tim. ii. 15. 



< 14 ) 

nvherewith he himself has never been comforted of 
•God ? He cannot possibly perform, as he ought, 
any of these duties, and yet they are the most pre- 
cious and interesting parts of the ministerial work. 
However gigantic his intellectual powers; how- 
ever deep, and various, and accurate his learning, hfc 
is not able, in relation to any of these points, to leach 
others, seeing he is not taught himself. If he make 
the attempt, it will be the blind leading the blind ; 
and of this, unerring wisdom has told us tlft con- 
sequence*. It were rash, indeed, and unwarrant- 
ed, to say, that a man who knows nothing of the 
power of godliness, may not be employed, by a 
sovereign God, as the means of saving benefit te 
ethers. God undoubtedly may, and probably some- 
times does, " by way of miracle, raise a man to 
life by the bones of a dead prophetf." He may, 
and, there is reason to believe sometimes does, 
4t honour his own word so far as to make it effectu- 
al to salvation, even when it falls from unhallowed 
lips." The ministry even of Judas Iscariot was, 
probably, not without its benefit to the church of 
Christ. But such a result is not, in ordinary cases, 
and certainly not in any considerable degree, to be 
expected. When unsanctified ministers are intro- 
duced into the church, we may generally expect 
them to prove, not only an offence to God, but also 
a curse to his people. Piety, orthodoxy, practical 

» Mutt. xi. IS. t 3 KngsTLvL 8L 



i » ) 

holiness, anji alt the spiritual glories of the house* 
hot$ of faith, will commonly*be found to decline 
in proportion to the number and influence of these 
enemies in disguise. 

And here I cannot help bearing testimony 
against what appears to me a dangerous mistake ; 
which, though it may not be common, yet some-' 
times occurs among parents and guardians of the 
more serious, class. I mean the mistake of destin- 
ing young, persons to the Gospel Ministry, from a 
very early period of life, before they can be suppos- 
ed, from any enlightened view of the subject, to 
concur in the choice themselves ; and before they 
give any satisfactory evidence of vital piety. — 
Brethren, I venerate the parent who desires, and 
. daily prays, that it may please God to prepare and 
dispose his child, to serve him in the ministry ofte- 
oonciliation. Nay, I think that parent worthy of the 
thanks of every friend to religion, who solemnly 
devotes his child, even from the earliest period of 
life, to the service of the church, and avowedly 
conducts every part of his education with a. view ta 
this great object; provided the original consecra-r 
tion, and every subsequent arrangement, be made 
on the condition, carefully and frequently exgreised* 
as well as implied, that God shall he pleased ta 
sanction and accept the offering, by imparting his 
grace, and giving a heart to love, and desire the 
sacred work. Bat there is a wide difference be- 



( 16 ) 

tweeir this, and resolving that a particular son shall 
be a minister, in the same manner, and on the 
same principles, as another is devoted to the medi- 
cal profession, or to the bar, as a respectable em- 
ployment in life ; without recognizing vital piety, 
and the deliberate choice of the ministry, from re- 
ligious motives, as indispensable qualifications. 
This kind of destination to the sacred office, is as 
dangerous as it is unwarranted. Let the christian 
parent, however solemnly he may have devoted his 
child to the work of the ministry, and however 
fondly he may have anticipated his entrance on that 
blessed work ; if he find, at the proper age for de- 
ciding the question, no comfortable evidence of a 
heart regenerated, and governed by the spirit of 
grace; let him deliberately advise; — though his 
heart be wrung with anguish by the sacrifice ; — let 
him deliberately advise the choice of another pro- 
fession* When young men begin to enter the 
gospel ministry, because they were early destined to 
the office; because it is a respectable profession; 
or because they wish to gratify parents and friends ; 
rather than because they love the office, and its 
work, and have reason to hope that God has . been 
pleased to call them by his grace, and reveal his San 
in them* ; we may consider the ministry as in a 
fair way to be made, in fact, a secular employment, 



• Gai. L 15, 16, 



( 17 ) 

§ 

and the church, a prostituted theatre for the schemes 
and ambition of worldly men. , 

So deeply and vitally important is piety in 
forming a faithful and able ministry; and so 
often has it appeared to be forgotten, or, at least, 
undervalued, amidst the brilliancy of more splen- 
did accomplishments; that there cannot be too 
strict a guard placed on this point, both by public 
sentiment, and by ministerial fidelity. Many very 
excellent men, indeed, have felt a jealousy of Theo- 
logical Seminaries, as such, as if they were calcu- 
lated for training up learned and eloquent, rather 

than pious ministers. Though I believe that this 
jealousy has been sometimes indulged unjustly, 
and often carried to an unwise and mischievous 
extreme ; and though there appears to me no other 
ground for it, than the melancholy fact, that the 
best human institutions are liable to perversion and 
degeneracy ; yet I cannot find in my heart to con- 
demn it altogether. Nay, I trust that a portion 
of it will always be kept alive, as a guard, 
under God, against the evil which it deprecates. 
For I persuade myself that every minister of the 
Presbyterian Church, in the United States, is ready 
to adopt the language, with a little variation, of 
that great and excellent man, who, for near thirty 
years, adorned the American Church, and the pre- 
sidential chair of this College. " Accursed be all - 
" that learning which sets itself in opposition to 

3 



( 1* ) 

« vital piety ? Accursed be all thdtt feartiitig- which 
" disguises, or is ashamed of vital piety 1 Accurs» 
« ed be all that learning, which attempts to fill the 

* place, of to supercede the honours, of vita! piety ? 
•* N&y, accursed be all that learning, which is toot 

* made subservient to the promotion and the glory 

* of Vital piety !** 

Bttt piety, though it hold the first place kmt>ft£ 
es&ebf iat qualifications here, 1s not all that is neces- 
sary. It is not every pious man, nay r hoi every fer- 
vently pious man, that is qualified to be a minister, 
and far less an able minister. Another essential 
requisite to form die character of such a minister* 
is, 

9. Talents. By which I mean, not that 
every able minister must, of necessity, be a man cf 
genius j but that hfc must be a man of good sbnse ; 
Of native discernment and discretion; in other 
words, of a sound YespectaMe natural understand- 
ing. ? 

■ 

When our blessed Lord was about to send forth 
his first ministers, he said unto them j Be ye wise as 
$etpents, as wefl as harmless as dovesf. And, truly, 
there is no employment under heaven, in which 

* See fPitherefioon 9 * Sermon on glorying in the croat of 
Christ. t Matt. *. 16* 



( » ) 

wisdom* practical wisdom, is at important, or ra* 
liter, so imperiously and indispensably demand? 
ed, as in the ministry of reconciliation. A W*S 
of a weak and childish mind, though he vers 
pious as Gabriel, can never make an able minister, 
and he ought never to be invested with theaffipe at 
all : for with respect to a large portion of its duties, 
he is utterly unqualified to perform tbenj ; and h§ 
i* in constant danger pf rendering both himself Wld 
his office contemptible. 



No reasonable man would require piwf to eon* 
vince him, that good sense is essential to form an 
able physician, an able advocate at the bar, or an 
able ambassador at a foreign court Nor would 
any prudent man entrust his property, his J*fe, or 
the interests of his country, to one who difc not 
bear this character. And can it be necessary to 
employ argument, to show that interests, in com- 
parison witfi which, worldly property, the health of 
the body, and even the temporal prosperity- of na- 
tions, are all little things, ought not to be commit- 
ted to any other than a man of sound and respecta- 
ble understanding? Alas! if ecclesiastical judi- 
catories bad not frequently acted, as if this were tar 
from being a settled point, it were almost an insult 
to my audience to speak of it as a subject admitting 
of a question. 



Though a minister concentrated in himself all 



(.» ) 

preached, at the present day, by persons of fervent 
piety, and plain sense, who have never enjoyed any 
greater advantages of scholastic learning, than the 
apostles did. The supposed fact, which these vain 
and ignorant pleaders assume, is utterly unfound- 
ed. The apostles were not an illiterate ministry. 
They were the soundest, and best informed divines 
that ever adorned the christian church* So indisr 

pensable did it appear to infinite wisdom, that they 
should be such, that they were thus accomplished 
by the immediate inspiration of the Holy Ghost 
And we have reason to believe, that men, before un- 
learned, were chosen to be the subjects of this in- 
spiration, in preference to others, that the miracle 
might be the more apparent ; that it might be the 
more clearly seen that lite excellency of the power 
was of God f and not of man*. Let this inspiration, 
confirmed as it then was by miracle, be now pro- 
duced, and we will acknowledge it as more than an 
adequate substitute for the ordinary method of ac* 
quiring knowledge, by books and study. 

But if, as we all allow, the age of inspiration 
and of miracle be long since past; and if it be 
still necessary, notwithstanding, that the preachers 
of the gospel possess, substantially, the same know- 
ledge that the apostles had j then, undoubtedly, it 
is to be acquired in a different way from theirs, that 

• 2 Cor. iv. 7. 



( *a > 

is, by the diligent use of ordinary means. If mi* 
Bisters must be apt to teach, as tbe Spirit of God has 
declared** they ought to be capable of teaching* 
If the pries f 8 lips ought to keep knowledge^, he cer* 
tainly ought to posses* knowledge* And if Timo* 
thy, though he lived in the days of inspiration, and 
was the immediate and favourite disciple of an in- 
spired man, was yet enjoined, by that very inspired 
man, to give himself to reading, as well as to ex-> 
Jtortation ; to meditate upon these things, and to 
give himself wholly to them, that his profiting might 
appear to aU% ; how much more necessary are si- 
milar means of acquiring knowledge, to those who 
are called to labours of the same nature, and quite 
as arduous, without possessing the same advanta- 
ges! 

But what kind, and what degree of intellectual 
cultivation, and of acquired knowledge, may be 
considered as necessary to form an able minister of 
Jesus Christ ? That we may give a more enlight- 
ened answer to this question, let us inquire, what 
such a minister is called, and must be qualified, to 
perform ? He is, then, to be ready* on all occasions, 
to explain the scriptures. This is his first and chief 
work* That is, not merely to state and support the 
more simple and elementary doctrine of the gospel ; 



• 1 Tim. iii. 2. and 2 Tim. ii. 24. t Malachi ii. 7. 

\ 1 Tim. iv. 13. 15. 



( 24 ) 

but also to elucidate with clearness the various parts 
of the sacred volume, whether doctrinal, historical, 
typical, prophetic, or practical. He is to be ready 
to rectify erroneous translations of sacred scrip- 
ture ; to reconcile seeming contradictions j to clear 
up real obscurities ; to illustrate the force and beau- 
ty of allusions to ancient customs and manners ; 
and, in general, to explain the word of God, as 
one who has made it the object of his deep and 
successful study. He is set for the defence of tlie 
gospel*; and, therefore, must be qualified to an- 
swer the objections of infidels ; to repel the in- 
sinuations and cavils of sceptics; to detect, ex* 
pose, and refute the ever varying forms of heresy ; 
and to give notice, and stand in the breach, when 
men, ever so covertly or artfully, depart from the, 
faith once delivered to the saints^. He is to be rea- 
dy to solve the doubts, and satisfy the .scruples of 
conscientious believers ; to give instruction to the 
numerous classes of respectful and serious inquirers; 
to reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with all long suffer- 
ing and doctrine%. He is to preach the gospel with 
plainness, dignity, clearness, force, and solemnity. 
And, finally, he is to perform his part in the judica- 
tories of the church, where candidates for the ho- 
ly ministry are examined and their qualifications 
ascertained ; where a constant inspection is main- 

* Philifl. I 17. t J«dc 3. * 2 Tim. iv. 2. 



( «& ) 

iaiaed over the faith and order of the church j 
where the general interests of Zion are discussed 
and decided; and in conducting the affairs of 
which, legislative, judicial, and executive proceed- 
ings are all combined. 

This is but a very brief and imperfect sketch of 
what a minister is called to perform. Now, it is 
evident that, in order to accomplish ail this, with 
even tolerable ability, a man must be furnished 
With a large amount of knowledge. " He must," 
(and on this subject I am happy in being able to 
fortify myself with 4he judgment, and to employ, 
for the most part, the language, of the General As- 
sembly of our church,) " he must be well skilled 
, " in the original languages of the holy Scriptures. 
" He must be versed in Jewish and Christian anti- 
quities. He must have a competent acquaint- 
ance with Ancient Geography, and Oriental CW- 
" tarns. He must have read and digested the 
principal arguments and writings, relative to 
what has been called the Deistical controversy* 
" lie must have studied, carefully and correctly, 
u Natural Theology 9 together with Didactic, Po- 
* lemic 9 and Casuistic Divinity ; and be able to 
" support the doctrines of the Gospel, by a ready, 
" pertinent, and abundant quotation of Scripture 
" texts for that purpose. He must have a consi- 
" derable acquaintanea with general History and 
u Chronology ; and a particular acquaintance with 

4 









( 26 ) 

" the history of the christian Church. He must 
" have studied attentively the duties of the Pasto- 
" ral Office ; the form of Church government au- 
" thorized by the sciptwres; and the administra- 
" tion of it as practised in the protestant churches*.*' 
He must have become well versed in Moral Philo- 
sophy, as an important auxiliary in studying man, 
his constitution, the powers and exercises of his 
depraved and sanctified nature, and his duties 
thence arising. To all these, he must add, a re- 
spectable share of knowledge, in general Grammar, 
in Logic, Metaphysics, Natural Philosophy, Ma- 
thematical Science, Geography, Natural History, 
and polite Literature. 

Several of these branches of learning are, in- 
deed, only auxiliary to the main body, if I may so 
express it, of ministerial erudition. But they are 
important auxiliaries. No man, it is true, can be 
a complete master of them all ; and it were crimi- 
nal in a minister to attempt so much. The time 
requisite for this, must be taken from more impor- 
tant employments. Of some of these departments 
of knowledge, general views are sufficient; and of 
others, perhaps, an acquaintance with nomencla- 
tures and first principles ought to satisfy the theolo- 
gical pupil. But so much of them ought to be ac- 



* Constitution of the Theological Seminary of (he Pretby* 
terian Church, Article 4th. 



( 27 ) 

quired, as may enable their possessor the better to 
understand the scriptures, and the better to defend 
the gospel. 1 repeat it, every branch of knowledge 
is helpful and desirable to the christian minister. — 
Not to enable him to shine, as a man of learn* 
ingt this were infinitely beneath the aim of an 
ambassador of Christ: but to make him a more 

accomplished and useful teacher of others. For 
it is certain that the more he attains of real, 
solid science, provided it be sanctified science, the 
more clearly will he be able to explain the sacred 
volume, and the more wisely and forcibly to preach 
that Gospel which is the power of God unto salva- 
tion to every one that believeth*. 

4. Once more, it enters into the character of a 
faithful minister, that he is active, siwemt and 
persevering in the discharge of his multiplied 
and arduous duties. However fervent his piety ; 
however vigorous his native talents ; and however 
ample his acquired knowledge j yet, if lie be timid, 
indolent, wavering, easily driven from the path of 
dirty, or speedily discouraged in his evangelical la* 
bours, he does not answer the apostle's description 
of a faithful man* The minister who is, in any 
good measure, entitled to this character, is one who 
carefully studies to know, and to . the best of his 
knowledge, declares the whole counsel of God, with- 

* Rom. i. 16. 



( 28 ) 

out fearing the frowns, or courting the smiles, of 
men ; who shrinks not from any self-denial, labour, 
or danger to which the will of his Master, and the 
interests of religion, evidently call him ; who ab- 
hors the thought of sitting down in inglorious ease, 
while thousands are perishing around him ; who 
does not allow himself to be diverted by secular or 
minor objects from his grand work ; who is instant 
in season, and out of season, in all the diversified 
and momentous labours of his holy vocation ; and 
the object of whose steady exertion, as well as su- 
preme desire, it is, that the church may be built 
up ; that souls may be saved ; and that Christ in 
all things may be glorified** 

Such is a faithful and able minister. A minister* 
fervently pious ; eminently wise, discerning, and 
prudent; extensively learned, especially mighty 
in the Scriptures; abounding and prevalent in pray- 
er; a bold, energetic, instructive, experimental 
preacher; a zealous, affectionate, condescending, 
laborious pastor ; a friend to revivals of religion ; 
a firm and persevering contender for the truth ; one, 
in short, who devotes all his talents, all his learn- 
ing, all his influence, and all his exertions, to the one 
grand object, fulfilling the ministry which he has 
teeeined of the Lord Jesus. 

* 1 Peter iv. 1 h 



( 29 ) 

Such a minister, to select an example, was the 
apostle Paul. With a heart warmed with the love 
of Christ ; with an understanding 1 vigorous, sound, 
and comprehensive ; and with a store of various 
and profound knowledge, he went forth to meet 
and to conciliate the enemies of his divine Master : 
and in the course of his ministry, he manifested thef 
importance of every qualification with which that 
Master had furnished him. Let us follow and ob- 
serve him a little in the discharge of his ministe- 
rial labours. " Now we see him reasoning with 
" Pagans, and then remonstrating with Jews : now 
u arguing, from the law of nature, and then from 
" the Old Testament scriptures : now appealing to 
the writings of heathen poets and philosophers, 
and then referring to the traditions of the fathers, 
" of which he had been exceedingly zealous : now 
" stating his arguments with all logical exactness, 
" and then exposing the sophistry and false learn* 
" ing of his adversaries* :" now pleading with all 
the majesty and pathos of unrivalled eloquence, 
upon Mars-hill, aud before Felix and Agrippa, and 
then instructing, from house to house, the young 
and the aged, with all the tenderness of a father, and 
all the simplicity and condescension of a babe. — 
And what was the consequence ? . With these 
qualifications, he laboured not only more abundant- 
ly, but more successfully, than all the apostles j and 

# Stcnnctt's •Sermon before the Education Society y p. 12. 



4i 



( »o ) 

Las probably been the means of richer Blessings 
to the church and the world, than any other mere 
man that ever lived. 

But you will, perhaps, ask, " Ought all these 
" qualifications to be cpnsidered as indispensable 
" for every minister ? f'or example, ought no one 
" to have the ministry ' committed* to him, unless 
" he have acquired, or be in a fair way to attain, 
" the whole of those literary and scientific accom- 
" plishments which have been recounted as desire- 
" able ?" It is not necessary, perhaps it is not 
proper, at present, to give a particular answer to 
this question. My object has been to describe an 
able and faithful ministry. To my description I 
am not conscious of having added any thing super* 
fluous or unimportant. Such a ministry it ought to 
be the aim and the endeavour of the church to train 
np. Yet, it is certain that under the best adminis- 
tration of ecclesiastical affairs that ever existed, 
since the days of the apostles, or that is ever likely 
to exist, all ministers have not been alike able and 
faithful : and it is equally certain that cases have 
occurred in which individuals with furniture for the 
sacred office interior to that which is desirable, have 
been in a considerable degree, both respectable and 
useful. But still a character something resembling 
that which has been drawn, ought to be considered 
as the proper standard, and exertions made to at- 
tain as near an approximation to it, in all cases, as 



s 



( 31 ) 

possible. And after all that can be done, excep- 
tions to & rigid conformity with this standard, will 
be found in sufficient number, without undertaking 
to lower the standard itself, in such a manner as 
to provide for their multiplication. But, 

II. What are the means which the 
Church is bound to employ, ;for providing 
such A ministry ? This question was assigned 
as the second subject of inquiry. 

And here, it is perfectly manifest, that the 
church can neither impart grace, nor create talents. 
She can neither make men pious, nor give them in- 
tellectual powers. But is there, therefore, nothing 
that can be done, or that ought to be done by her ? 
Yes, brethren, there is much to be done. Though 
Jehovah the Saviour has the government upon his 
shoulder, his kingdom is a kingdom of means j and 
He is not to be expected to work miracles to supply 
our lack of exertion. If, therefore, the church 
omit to employ the means which her King and Head 
has put within her power, for the attainment of a 
given object, both the sin and the disgrace of fail- 
ing to attain that object, will lie at her own door. 

What, then, are the means which the church is 
bound to employ for providing an able and faithful 
ministry ? They are such as these : looking for, 
and carefully selecting young men of piety and 



{ 3* ) 

talents, for the work of the ministry; providing 
funds, for the temporary support of those who 
may stand in need of such aid; furnishing a se- 
minary, in which the most ample means of in_ 
struction may be found ; and, having done all this, 
to guard, by her judicatories, the entrance into 
the sacred office, with incessant vigilance* 

1. The Church is bound, with a vigilant eye, to 
search for, and carefully to select, from among the 
j/oung men fvithin her bosom, those who are endow- 
ed with piety and talents, whenever she can find 
these qualifications united* Piety is humble and re- 
tiring ; and talents, especially of the kind best adapt- 
ed to the great work of the ministry, are modest 
and unobtrusive* They require, at least in many 
instances, to be sought out, encouraged, and brought 
forward. And how, and by whom, is this to be 
done ? The children of the church are, if I may 
so express it, the churclis property. She has a 
right to the services of the best of them. And as 
it is the part, both of wisdom and affection, in pa- 
rents according to the flesh, to attend with vigi- 
lance to the different capacities and acquirements 
of their children, and to select for them, as far as 
possible, corresponding employments ; so it is ob- 
viously incumbent on the Church, the moral parent 
of all the youth within her jurisdiction, to direct 
especial attention to such of them as may be fitted 
to serve her in the holv ministry. And it mav be 



( 83 ) 

asserted, without fear of contradiction, that when* 
ever young men are found, who unite fervent piety f 
"with talents adapted to the office, it is the duty of 
such to seek the gospel ministry ; and it is the du- 
ty of the church to single them out, to bring them 
forward, and to endeavour to give them all that 
preparation, which depends on human means, for 
the service of the sanctuary* 

2. The church is bound to provide funds fot the 
partial or entire support of those who need this kind 
of aid, while they are preparing for the work of the 
ministry. Some of the most promising candidates 
for this holy work have not the means of support- 
ing themselves, while they withdraw from the 
world, and give up its emoluments, for the purpose 
of becoming qualified to serve God in the Gospel 
of his Son. These persons must either abandon 
their sacred enterprise altogether, or receive, from 
some other source, adequate aid. And from what 
source can they so properly receive it, as from their 
moral parent, the Church ? Nature, reason, equity, 
parental affection, — all conspire in pointing to this 
parent, as the most suitable provider. The aid 
which flows only from the hand of individual 
and occasional bounty, may be withdrawn, or 
grudgingly continued : but the church can never 
be weary, as long as ability is given her, 
of providing for her beloved children. The aid 
which individuals, as such, furnish, may excite, in 

5 



( 84 ) 

delicate minds, a painful sense of dependence : but 
children ought to feel, can feel, no pain in receiving 
from the hand of parental affection. 

Nor is it any valid objection to the furnishing of 
this aid, that the objects of it may not always be 
found, when their character shall be completely de- 
veloped, either ornaments to the church, or worthy 
of so much exertion and expenditure. As well 
might parents according to the flesh decline to pro- 
vide for the support and education of their children, 
in early life, lest peradventure they might after- 
wards prove neither a comfort nor an honour to 
them. In this respect every faithful parent consi- 
ders himself as bound, in duty and affection, to 
take all possible pains for promoting the welfare of 
his offspring, and having done so, to leave the 
event with God. 

Neither ought the church to consider this provi- 
sion as a burden, or imagine that, in making it, she 
confers a favour. It is as clearly her duty — a duty 
which she as really owes both to her Master and her- 
self, as the ordinary provision which she makes for 
the support of the word and ordinances. Or ra- 
ther, it is to be lamented that she has not been ac- 
customed always to consider it, as an essential part 
of her ordinary provision for the maintenance of 
the means of grace. 



( to ) 

fartlieraB0£|gStaBB mean 

which the church is bound to employ for 
providing an able and faithful ministry, is, furnish- 
ing a Seminary in which the candidates/or this office 
may receive the most appropriate and complete in- 
struction, which she has it in her power to give. In 
vain are young men of fervent piety, and the best 
talents, sought after and discovered ; and in vain 
are funds provided for their support, while prepar- 
ing for the ministry, unless pure and ample foun- 
tains of knowledge are opened to them, and unless 
competent guides are assigned, to direct them in 
drinking at those fountains* This, however, is so 
plain, so self-evident, that I need not enlarge upon 
its proof. 

But perhaps it may be supposed by some, that 
there is no good reason why these means of educa- 
tion should be provided by the Church, as such. It 
may be imagined, that they will be as likely to be 
provided, and as well provided, by private instruct- 
ors, as by public Seminaries. But all reason* and 
all experience, pronounce a different judgment, and 
assign, as the ground of their decision, such con- 
siderations as these- 

First, when the Church herself provides a Semi- 
nary for the instruction of her own candidates for 
the ministry, she can at all times inspect and regu- 
late the course of their education ; can see that it 



( ■• ) 

fe6 soundnfrtfrough, ^id^faith£ati,can direct and 
control the instructors ; can correct sue hr errors? 
anefmake such improvements in her plans of in- 
struction, as the counsels of the whole body may 
discover, Whereas, if all be left to individual dis- 
cretion, the preparation for the service of the 
church may be in the highest degree defective, or 
ill-judged, not to say unsound, without the church 
being able effectually to interpose her correcting 
hand. 

• Again j when the Church herself takes the in- 
struction of her candidates into her own hands, 
she can furnish a more extensive, accurate, and com* 
plete course of instruction than can be supposed to 
be, ordinarily, within the reach of detached indi- 
viduals. In erecting and endowing a Seminary, 
she can select the best instructors out of her whole 
body. She can give her pupils the benefit of the 
whole time, and the undivided exertions, of these 
instructors. Instead of having all the branches of 

knowledge, to which the theological student ap- 
plies himself, taught by a single master, she can 
divide the task of instruction, among several com- 
petent teachers, in such a manner as to admit of 
each doing full justice both to his pupils and him- 
self. She can form one ample Library, by which a 
given number of students may be much better ac- 
commodated, when collected together, and having 
access to it in common, than if the same amount of 



> 



( 37 ) 

books were divided into a corresponding 1 number of 
smaller libraries. And she can digest, and gradu- 
ally improve a system of instruction, which shall 
be the result of combined wisdom, learning, and 
experience. Whereas those candidates for the sa- 
cred office, wHo commit themselves to the care of 
individual ministers, selected according to the con- 
venience or the caprice of each pupil, must, in ma- 
ny cases, at least, be under the guidance of in- 
structors who have neither the talents, the learning, 
nor the leisure to do them justice; and who have 
not even a tolerable collection of books, to supply 
the lack of their own furniture as teachers. 

Further ; when the Church herself provides the 
means of instruction for her own ministry, at a 
public seminary, she will, of course, be furnished 
with ministers who have enjoyed, in some measure, 
a uniform course of education ; who have derived 
their knowledge from the same masters, and the 
same approved fountains, and who may, therefore, 

be expected to agree in their views of evangelical 
truth and order. There will thus be the most ef- 
fectual provision made, speaking after the manner 
of men, for promoting the unity and peace of the 
church. Whereas, if every candidate for the holy 
ministry, be instructed by a different master, each 
of whom may be supposed to have his peculiarities 
of expression and opinion, especially about minor 
points of doctrine and discipline, the harmony of our 



i 



» 
* 



t 
t 



( 38 ) 

ecclesiastical judicatories will gradually be impair- 
ed; and strife, and perhaps eventually, schism, 
may be expected to arise in our growing and happy 
church. 

It is important to add, that when the Church pro* 
yides for educating a number of candidates for the 
ministry at the same seminary, these candidates 
themselves may be expected to be of essential ser- 
vice to each other. Numbers being engaged to- 
gether in the same studies, will naturally excite the 
principle of emulation. As iron sharpeiieth iron, 
so tbe amicable competition, and daily intercourse 
of pious students, can scarcely fail of leading to 
closer and more persevering application ; to deeper 
research j to richer acquirements ; and to a more 
indelible impression of that which is learned, upon 
their minds, than can be expected to take place in 
solitary study. 

Nor is it by any means unworthy of notice, that, 
when the ministers of a church are generally train- 
ed up at the same seminary, they are naturally led 
to form early friendships, which bind them together 
to the end of life, and which are productive of that 
mutual confidence and assistance, which can scarce- 
ly fail of shedding a benign influence on their per- 
sonal enjoyment, and their official comfort and use- 
fulness. These early friendships may also be ex- 
pected to add another impulse to a sense of duty, 



( »> ) 

in annually drawing ministers from a distance to 
meet each other in the higher judicatories . of the 
church ; and, which is scarcely less important, to 
facilitate and promote that mutual consultation, res- 
pecting plans of research, and new and interesting 
publications, which is, at once, among the safe- 
guards, as well as pleasures, of theological author- 
ship. 

These, brethren, are some of the considerations 
which call upon every church, to erect, and to sup* 
port with vigour and efficiency, a Theological Semi- 
nary for the training of her ministry. If she de- 
sires to .augment the number of her ministers; if 
she wishes their preparation for the sacred office to 
be the best in her power to give, and at the least 
possible expense ; if she desires that they may be 
a holy phalanx, united in the same great views of 
doctrine and discipline, and adhering with uni- 
formity and with cordial affection to her public 
standards ; if she deprecates the melancholy spec* 
tacle of a heterogeneous, divided, and distracted 
ministry : and finally, if she wishes her ministers 
to be educated under circumstances most favoura- 
ble to their acting in after life, as a band of breth- 
ren, united in friendship as well as in sentiment ; 
then let her take measures for training them up un- 
der her own eye, and control; under the same 
teachers j in the same course of study ; and under 
all those advantages of early intercourse, and af- 



( 40 ) 

fectionate competition, which attend a public semi- 
nary. 

> 
In favour of all this reasoning, the best experi- 
ence, and the general practice of the church, in 
different ages, may be confidently urged. " It has 
" been the way of .God," says the pious and learn- 
ed Dr. Lightfoot, " to instruct his people by a 
" studious and learned ministry, ever since he 
u gave a written word to instruct them in." "Who," 
he asks, " were the standing ministry of Israel, all 
" the time from the giving of the law, till the cap- 
" tivity in Babylon P Not prophets, or inspired 
" men j for they were but occasional teachers ; but 
41 the Priests and Levites, who became learned in 
" the law by study. Deuteronomy xxxiii. 10. 
" Hosea iv. 6. Malachi ii. 7. And for this end, 
" they were disposed into forty eight cities, as so 
" many universities, where they studied the law to- 
" gether ; and from thence were sent out into the 
" several synagogues, to teach the people." They, 
had also, the same writer informs us, " contributions 
' " made for the support of these students, while they 
" studied in the universities, as well as afterwards 
" when they preached in tJie synagogues? He tells 
us further, in another place, " that there were 
" among the Jews, authorized individual teachers, 
" of great eminence, who had their Midrashoth, or 
u Divinity ScJtools, in which they expounded the 
M law to their scholars or disciples." . " Of these 



i 

i 



( 41 ) 

* Divinity Schools," he adds, « Aerc is very fire* 
" quent mention made antpng the Jewish writers, 
" more especially of the schools of HUlel and 
«« Shammai. Such a Diviniiy Professor was Ga»ui- 
« Zie^ at whose feet, the great Apostle of the gen- 
« tiles received his education*." 

Under the christian dispensation, the same sys- 
tem, in substance, was adopted and continued. At 
a very early period, there was a seminary of high 
reputation established in the city of Alexandria, in 
which candidates for the holy ministry were train- 
ed up together, and under the ablest instructors, 
both in divine and human learning; a seminary in 
A which Pantenus, Clemens Alexaridrinus, Origen,*n& 
others, taught with high reputation. Eusebius and 
Jerome both declare, that this seminary had exist* 
ed, as a nursery of the church, and had enjoyed a 
succession of able teachers, from the time of Mark 
the evangelistf. Writers on christian antiquities 
also assure us that there were seminaries of a simi- 
lar kind very early established at Rome, Ccesarea, 
Antioch, and other places J ; and that they were 
considered as essential to the honour and prosper}* 

» 

ty of the church. 



• Light/oofs Works, vol. I. 357. 574. 
t Euacb ; Lib. v. c. 10. Meron. Oper.i. 105, 
\ See Bingkam'a Qiigvne* EccletiaaHc*. Book in. Chap. 
10. 

e 



( 42 ) 

At the period of the reformation, religion anil 
learning revived together. The Reformers were 
not lens eminent for their erudition, than for their 
piety and zeal. They contended earnestly for an 
enlightened, as well as a faithful ministry ; and, ac- 
cordingly, almost all the protestant churches, when 
they found themselves in a situation to admit of the 
.exertion, founded Theological Seminaries, as nur- 
series for their ministry. This was the case in Ge- 
neva, in Scotland, in Holland, in Germany, and, 
with . very little exception, throughout reformed 
Christendom. And the history of those seminaries, 
while it certainly demonstrates, that such establish- 
ments are capable of being perverted; demon- 
strates, with equal evidence, that they have been 
made, and might always* with the divine blessing 
on a faithful administration, be rendered exten- 
sively useful* 

r 

1 4 - * 

And what have the most eminently pious and 
learned ministers, that ever adorned the American 
church, thought on this subject ? Let yonder ve- 
nerable walls tell ! Yes, brethren, it was because 
Tennent and Dickinson, and Burr, and Edwards, 

9 

and Davies, and Finley, and Blair, and other 
champions of the cross, were deeply impressed 
with the truth, that learning and talents, united with 
piety, are of the highest importance to the christian 
ministry, that they laboured and prayed so much 
for the establishment and support of Nassau-Hall. 



\ 



( 43 ) 

May their spirit and their opinions revive; and 
more and' more pervade our church, until the dawn* 
ing of the Millennial Sabbath ! 

In establishments of this kind, in more recent 
times, our congregational brethren, in New-Eng- 
land, and our brethren of the Dutch and Associate 
Reformed churches, have gone before us, and set us 
noble examples. We have, at length, awoke from 
our sleep ; and with tardy, but, as we hope, with 
firm, with well-advised, and with heaven-directed 
steps, have begun to follow them. In the name of 
Jehovah Jesus, the king of Zion, we lift ' up bur 
banner ! May his blessing descend, and rest upon 
the transaction of this day, as a pledge that he is 
about to visit our church in his abundant mercy ! 

4. The last means of providing an able and 
faithful ministry, on which I shall insist, is fidelity 
on the part of tlte Judicatories of the church in 
guarding Hie entrance into the sacred office* It is 
our happiness, that, according to the truly apostolic 
and primitive constitution of our church, the power 
of licensing candidates, and of setting apart to the 
work of the holy ministry, is not given to any in- 
dividual, by whatever name he may be called. Nay, 
while the church provides a seminary for the in- 
struction of her candidates for the sacred office, she 
does not give even to the conductors of that semi- 
nary, however pious; learned, or venerable, the 



( 44 ) 

right ultimately to judge of the qualifications of 
those candidates, and to admit or reject them a^ 
their pleasure. This is the prerogative of her ap- 
propriate judicatories; and the manner in which 
it is exercised, is all-important. However vigi- 
lantly and perseveringly other means for at- 
taining the object proposed, may be employed, 
if there be a failure here, the most calamitous con* 
sequences may be expected. If presbyteries be 
superficial in their examinations of candidates ; if 
they be too ready to lay hands on the weak, the igno- 
rant, the erroneous, or those of doubtful piety ; or 
if f for the sake of attaining an occasional purpose, 
or meeting a temporary difficulty, they at any time 
suffer the barriers which have been erected for ex- 
cluding the incompetent or the unworthy, to be 
removed or trampled down, they are taking the di- 
rect course to bring the ministry and religion ihto 
contempt. 

I know that, on this subject, pleas are often urg- 
ed which it is extremely difficult to resist. Some 
good qualities in the candidates; private friend- 
ships; an unwillingness to give pain; the scarcity 
of ministers ; and the necessities of the church, are 
all alternately employed as arguments for the ad- 
mission of unsuitable characters into the ministry* 
But it is a most important part of fidelity in the 
work of the Lord, to oppose and reject every plea 
of this kind. Private friendships ought not to in- 



/ 



( 45 ) 

terf ere with a supreme regard to the Redeemer s 
kingdom. It is better, much better* to inflict pain 
for a time, on an individual, than to wound the 
church of Christ. And by introducing into the 
ministry those who are neither faithful, nor able to 
teach, judicatories are so far from supplying the 
wants of the church, that they rather add to her 
•difficulties, and call her to straggle with new evils. 
To be in haste to multiply and send out unqualified 
labourers, is to take the most direct method to send 
a destructive blast on the garden of God, instead of 
gathering a rich and smiling harvest. 

On the other hand, when judicatories, with 
enlightened vigilance, and fidelity, guard the en* 
trance into the sacred office ; when they exert the 
authority committed to them, to keep out of the 
ministry, incompetence, heresy, levity, and worldly 
mindedness ; they obey a divine precept; they support 
the real honour of the gospel ministry ; they con- 
strain those who are looking toward that blessed 
work, to take a higher aim, and to seek for higher 
attainments ; they give the churches bread instead 
of a stone, and fish instead of a serpent ; and 
though they may appear, to those who make haste* 
to be tardy in supplying the public demand for mi- 
nisters, they are taking one of the most effectual 
methods, under God, for raising up & numerous, as 
well as an able and faithful ministry. 



( 46 ) 

Let us now turn our attention to some practical 
inferences from the foregoing discussion. And, ' 

1. If the representation which has been given 
be just, then our church has been, for a long time, 
almost entirely, and very criminally, negligent of a 
great and important duty. While she has directed 
much laudable attention to other objects, she has, in 
a great measure, suffered the most promising means 
of providing an able and faithful ministry, to take 
care of themselves. Other churches have also 
been guilty, in a considerable degree, of similar 
negligence; a negligence for which, alas! our 
country mourns ; and would mourn much more, if 
the importance of the subject were understood and 
appreciated as it ought to be ; but OUR church 
hasbj£en pre-eminently guilty! Though 
among the largest christian denominations in the 
United States ; though possessing, in its individual 
members, perhaps more wealth than any other; 
though favoured, in many respects, with ample 
means for every kind of generous ecclesiastical 
enterprise ; and though often and solemnly warned 
on the subject; she has yet been among the very 

last of all the evangelical denominations among us, 
to ^commence a course of efficient exertion for rais- 
ing up a qualified ministry. We have slumbered, 
and slumbered, until the scarcity of labourers in 
our harvest, has become truly alarming! God 
grant that we may testify by our future conduct, 



( 47 ) 

that we remember, with unfeigned humiliation, our 
former negligence; and that we are resolved, as 
his grace shall enable us, to make amends for it, 
by redoubled zeal and diligence in time to come \ 

2. From what has been said, it appears, that 
the solemnity to attend on which we are this day 
assembled, is a matter of cor dial and animating can* 
gratulation to each other, and to the church of 
Christ in the United States. We are convened, 
under the authority of the General Assembly of our 
church, to organize a theological seminary, 
^nd to inaugurate the first professor in that 
seminary. Though later, much l*ter, in commenc- 
ing this establishment than we ought to have been ; 
we trust it is about to commence under the smiles 
of the great Head of the Church ; and that we may 
confidently regard it as a token for good to the Re- 
deemers kingdom, Yes, brethren, we have more 
reason to rejoice, and to felicitate one another, on 
the establishment of this seminary, than on the 
achievement of a great national victory, or on mak- 
ing a splendid addition to our national territory. 
It is the beginning, as we trust, of an extensive and 
permanent system, from whi?h blessings may flow 
to millions while we are sleeping in the dust. Let 
us, then, rejoice and be exceeding glad; and in 
the midst of our joy, let us look up to the Source 
of blessing, who can cause the walls of our Zion 



( 48 ) 

to rise even in troublous times*. While we con- 
gratulate each other, let oar petitions ascend, with 
our praises, to the throne of grace, that the semina- 
ry this day established, and, as we verily believe, 
founded in faith and prayer, may be a fountain, the 

streams of which shall make glad the city of our 
God; flowing in every direction, and abundantly 
watering the abodes of Zim's king, until all flesh 
shall taste his love, and see his glory ! 



3. If what has been said be correct, then those 
who are more immediately charged with conducting 
this seminary 9 whether as Directors or Professors, 
ought to consider themselves as honoured with a very 
solemn and weighty trust. The design of the sifr- 
preme Judicatory of our church, in founding this 
seminary, is nothing less than to train ap an abud 
and faithful MINISTRY ; a ministry on whose 
piety, talents, and learning, the temporal and etern- 
al welfare of thousands, now living, may, speaking 
after the manner of men, depend ; a ministry, 
whose character may have a commanding influ- 
ence, in forming the character of others, and they 
again of those who may successively fill the same 
office, until the end of time ! The design is inter- 
esting beyond expression ; and the task of these. 

* War had been declared, by the United States, against 
Great* Britain, a few weeks before this discourse was deli- 
vered. 



A 



i *> ) 

who are appointed to carry it into execution, is se* 
rkros and important to a degree which mortals can- 
no! estimate. When I cast an eye down the ages 
of eternity, and think how important is the salvation 
of a single soul ; when I recollect how important, 
of course, the office of a minister of the gospel, 
who may be the happy instrument of saving many 
hundreds, or thousands of souls ; and .when I remem- 
ber how many and how momentous are the relations, 
which a Seminary intended solely for training up 
ministers, bears to all the interests of men, in the 
life that, now is, and especially in that which is to 
come ; I feel as if the task of conducting such a 
Seminary, had an awfulness of responsibility con- 
nected with it, which is enough to make us tremble ! 
O my fathers and brethren! let it never be said of 
us, on whom this task has fallen, that we take more 
pains to make polite scholars, eloquent orators, or 
met* of mere learning, than to form able and faith- 
ful ministers of the New Testament; Let it never 
be said, that we are more anxious to maintain the 
literary and scientific honours of the ministry, than 
we are to promote that honour which consists in 
being full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and tlie 
instruments of adding much people to t/ie Lord* 
The eyes of the church are upon us. The eyes of 
angels, and, above all, the eyes of the King of 
Zion, are upon us'. May we have grace given us 
to be faithful ! 



( SO ) 

4. This subject suggests matter for very serious 
reflection to the Youtii, who are about to enter as 
students in this seminary, with a view to the gospel 
ministry. Behold, my young friends, the high cha- 
racter at which you are called to aim! You have 
come hither, not that you may prepare to shine ; 
not that you may prepare to amuse men by philoso- 
phic discussion, or to astonish them by flights of 
artificial eloquence: but that, by the blessing of 
God, upon the use of means, you may become 
faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also; 
that you may become wise in winning souls to 
Christ ; that you may prepare to go forth, defend* 
ing and proclaiming the messages of grace to 
guilty men, and persuading them to be reconciled to 
Geld. Seek to excel. It is noble to excel. But. 
let it be always for the edifying of the church. 
This, my young friends, this is the object which 
is recommended to your sacred emulation* We 
charge you, in the presence of God, to let all your 

studies and aims be directed to this grand object* 
6eek with humble, persevering, prayerful diligence, 
to be such ministers as you have heard described ; 
and you will neither disappoint yourselves, nor the 
Church of Christ. Seek to be any thing else ; and 
you will be a grief and a curse to both. May God 
the Saviour bless you, and prepare you to be work* 
men that need not be ashamed f 

5. From this subject we may derive powerful 



( «i ) 

excitements to young men of piety and talents, to 
come forward and devote themselves to the Gospel 
Ministry. We trust no young man will ever think 
of that holy vocation, until he has first given him- 
self up a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to 
God, by Jesus Christ. We would not, for any. 
consideration, be accessory to the sin of alluring 
into the sacred office, those who know nothing of 
the power of godliness, and who, on the most fa- 
vourable supposition, can be nothing better than 
miserable retailers of cold and unproductive specu- 
lations. But while we say this, and repeat it, with 
all the emphasis of which we are capable, we assert, 
with equal confidence, on the other hand, that wher- 
ever fervent piety appears, in any youngman, united 
with those talents which are adapted to the office 
of an ambassador of Christ, it is incumbent on their 
possessor, without delay, to devote himself to die 
work of the ministry. There are only two ques- 
tions which need be asked concerning any youth 
on this subject. " Has he a heart for the work ? 
" And has he those native faculties, which are sus- 
" ceptible of the requisite cultivation ?" If these 
questions can be answered in the affirmative, I 
hesitate not to say, that in the present state of 
the church, it is his duty to seek the ministry. 
Young men of this College ! have none of you any 
desire to serve your fellow men, and to serve Christ, 
in this exalted office ? You have but one short life 
to live in this world ; and you must, in a very little 



( 52 ) 

time, decide how you will spend that life. " We 
confidently pronounce, that it can be spent in no 
manner so desirable, so noble, so godlike, as in the 
gospel ministry. If then, you love the Lord Jesus 
Christ, come — we affectionately invite you to come, 
and take part with us in the ministry of the grace 
of God. The example of Christ invites you to 
come; the tears of bereaved Churches, who can 
find none to break unto them the bread of life, en- 
treat you to come ; the miseries of wandering souls, 
who find none to lead them to heaven, plead with 
you to come. Come, then, and take part with us 
in the labours and rewards of the ministry of re~ 
conciliation ! *" 

6.- Finally, if the representation which has been 
given be correct, then the Church at large ought to 
consider it as equally their privilege and their duty 
to support this Seminary. If one may judge by 
the language and the conduct of the generality of 
our church-members, they. seem to consider all re- 
gard to institutions of this kind, as the province of 
ministers only. They readily grant, that ministers 
ought to be prompt and willing, to give their time, 
their labours, a. id, where they have any, their sub- 
stance, for this end ; but for themselves, they pray 
to be excused. They either contribute nothing to* 



* See jfddress of the Presbytery of Nev>» Yark, on'educati 
ing poor and pious youth for the gospel ministry. 14. 



( 53 ) 

ward .the object ; or contribute in the most reluctant 
and sparing manner, as if they were bestowing a 
favour, which they have a perfect right to withhold. 
My dear brethren, it is difficult to express in ade- 
quate terms either the sin or the folly of such 
conduct. Seminaries of this kind are to be found- 
ed and supported by the church, as such. It 
is the church that is bound to take order on the 
subject. It is the church that is responsible 
for their establishment and maintenance. And if 
any of her members, or adherents, when called 
upon, will not contribute their just portion of aid 
for this purpose, the Head of the church will 
require it at their hands. .Professing christians! 
look upon the alarming necessities of the church ; 
upon destitute frontier settlements ; upon several 
hundred vacant congregations, earnestly desiring 
spiritual teachers, but unable to obtain them. 
Look upon the growing difficulty, with which the 
most eligible' and attractive situations in the church 
are supplied ; and then say whether those who still 
remain idle can be innocent? Innocent! Their 
guilt will be greater and more dreadful than can be 
described. Come, then, brethren, humbled by the 
past, and animated by the future, rouse from your 
lethargy, and begin to act in earnest ! Your mas- 
ter requires it of you ! The aspect of the times re- 
quires it of you ! The cries of the neglected and 
the perishing require it of you! Your own privi- 



\ 



( 64 ) 

leges and blessings require it of you ! Yes, ye who 
call yourselves Christians ! If you love the church 
to which you profess to belong : if you possess a 
single spark of the spirit of allegiance to her Di- 
vine Head and Lord : nay, if you desire not a fa- 
mine of the word of life ; if you desire not the 
heaviest spiritual judgments to rest upon you, then 
come forward, and act, as well as speak, like friends 
of the Redeemer's kingdom. Gome forward, and 
give your influence, your substance, and your pray- 
ers, for the help of the Lord against (lie mighty.* 

Amen ! 

* Judge* v. 23. 



i 



AM 



INAUGURAL DISCOURSE, 



DELIYEBSD IV THB 



CHURCH AT PRINCETON, NEW-JERSEY, 



IN THB PHBSBBCB OB THE 



DIRECTORS OF THE THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY, 



ON 



THE 12th OF AUGUST, 1812. 



BT 

ARCHIBALD ALEXANDER, D. D. 



AN 

INAUGURAL DISCOURSE, 



SfiCBLT RESPECTED AND VENERABLE DIRECTORS OF MM 

Theological School; and or her learned and res- 

TEcrABLE AuDItQRs. CONVENED ON THE RRESEN1* SQ* 
LEMN OCCASION ! 

The institution and commencement of a Theo- 
logical Seminary, under the patronage and direction 
of the General Assembly of our church, ought to be 
a subject of mutual congratulation to all its mem- 
bers. But it cannot be concealed, that the same 
causes which have operated to render such an in- 
stitution urgently necessary, have also opposed seri- 
ous obstacles in the way of carrying it into effect* 
The deficiency, among us, of that kind and extent 
of learning requisite to confer dignity and respect, 
as well as usefulness, on the professor's chair, is too 
obvious to require remark. But every important 
institution must have its infancy and growth, before 
it can arrive at maturity; and however long we 
might have deferred this undertaking, the same 
difficulties would probably have met us at its com- 
mencement, which we are now obliged to encoun- 
ter* The sentiments and emotions by which my 

8 



( 5* ) 

own mind is agitated, in consequence of the new 
and important station in which I find myself pla- 
ced by the choice of my brethren, and especially, 
the deep sense which I entertain of my insufficien- 
cy for the work, 1 shall not attempt to express. If 
the design be of Gob, he will prosper the undertak- 
ing, notwithstanding the weakness of the instru- 
ments employed in carrying it on ; and will crown 
our feeble efforts with success. On Him therefore 
may our hope and confidence be firmly fixed ; and 
may ' his will be done on e&rth as in heaven !' 

I have selected, as the subject of the discourse 
now required of me, the words of our Lord, re- 
corded in the 5th Chap, and 39th ver. of the Gos- 
pel according to John : 

'Eg€w<m t& y%otQok. Search the Scriptures. 

The verb here used, signifies, to search with dili- 
gence and attention. Its literal meaning appears 
to be, to pursue any one, by tracing his footsteps. 
Thus it is employed by Homer to express the li- 
on's* pursuit of the man who had robbed him of 
his whelps, by his footsteps ; and the dog'sf pursuit 
of his game, by his track. The precise meaning 
of the word, therefore, both in its literal and figu- 
rative application, is expressed by the English 

* //. xvlii. line 321. f Odys. xix# 1. 436* 



{ *» ) 

word, investigate. It may be read, either in the 
indicative, or in the imperative mood. Doctor 
Campbell^ in his new translation of the Gospels, 
prefers the former, and renders the passage, " Ye 
iio search the Scriptures/' but Wetsteiu and Park- 
hurst consider it to be in the imperative, agreeably 
to our version : and certainly this rendering gives 
more point and force to the sentence, " search the 
scriptures, for in them ye think ye have life* but they 
are they which testify of me" 

Although the word, n*?^*, scriptures, is of such 
general import, as to include writings of any kind ; 
yet there can be no doubt but what the Scrip- 
tures of the Old Testament were here intended. 
This phrase is used in the New Testament, as we 
use the word Bible, which, though literally signi- 
fying any book, yet is now appropriated to desig- 
nate the volume of inspiration. 

The history of the origin of alphabetical writing 
is involved in considerable obscurity. The first 
notice which we find of the existence of such an 
art, is contained in the* command given to Moses 
in the xvii. of Exodus, to write a certain transac- 
tion in a book * : and soon afterwards, we read 
that the law was written by the finger of Jeho- 
vah, on the two tables of testimonyf. To me, it 

• J2#ocfa9 xvii. 14. 1SD3 jnDT HW aro f Exodus xxxiv. 



( 60 ) 

appears very probable, therefore, that it was about 
this time a subject of revelation to Moses. As a 
precise pattern of the tabernacle was shown to him 
in the mount, and as certain persons were inspired 
with wisdom to fit them for the execution of that 
work, why may we not suppose that this wonderful 
art, so necessary for recording the revelations re- 
ceived from God, for the use of posterity, was al- 
so made known to Moses ? One thing is certain ; 
that all the alphabets of the western portion of the 
globe, and probably those of. the eastern also, have 
bad a common origin : and we have no authentic 
account of the invention of an alphabet by any 
people; so that whenever this art of writing may 
have had its origin, I am persuaded it was no in- 
vention of man, but a revelation from Gon. 

• ■ With respect to the antiquity of these writings, I 
know of none which can bear any competition 
with the Pentateuch. Some, indeed, have suppos- 
ed, that some part of the Yedas of the Brahmins, 
was written before the books of Moses ; but there. 
is no historical evidence on which we can depend 
in support of this opinion. -And we are too well 
acquainted with the fraudulent pretensions of the 
Hindoos to antiquity, to place any confidence in 
their assertions. The ultimate opinion of that 
incomparable scholar, Sir William Jones, on this 
Subject, Mas, that the writings of Mose$ were the 



( «1 ) 

oldest of any in the world* : and a more compe* 
tent and impartial judge could not easily be found* 

As the words of the text are indefinite, they 
should be considered as imposing an obligation on 
all sorts of persons, according to their ability and 
opportunity, to search the scriptures. We cannot 
help therefore being struck with the impiety, as well 
as absurdity, of the practice of the Papists, in with- 
holding the scriptures from the people. 

Will it be said, that when they misinterpret and 
pervert them, they should be taken away ? But 
such was the conduct of the persons here address- 
ed by Christ. They were so blinded by prejudice, 
that they could not perceive in the scriptures, that 
person, who was the principal subject of them. 
But does the divine Saviour forbid them the use of 
the scriptures, on this account ? No ; he enjoins it 
on them, to search them. To study them with 
more care, and with minds more free from preju- 
dice. 

Though the duty of searching the scriptures is 
common to all christians, yet there are some on 
whom it is more peculiarly incumbent. Teachers 
of religion, and candidates for the sacred office, 
are bound by an obligation of uncommon force to 
attend to tjiis duty. In particular relation to such, 

• See Asiatic Researches, vol. 1 and 2. 



I 



1 propose to consider the subject, in the sequel of 
this discourse. But before I proceed further, X 
would observe, that although the words of our 
Lord, in the text, refer to the Old Testament, (for at 
the time of their being spoken there were no other 
scriptures extant,) yet the reason of the command 
will apply with full force, to other inspired writings, 
as soon as they are promulgated. We shall there- 
fore consider the scriptures of the New Testament, 
as well as the Old, embraced within the scope of 
our Saviour's command. 

It will be important to bear in mind, that there 
are two distinct things comprehended in the object 
of this investigation. First, to ascertain that the 
scriptures contain the truths of God : and, second- 
ly, to ascertain what these truths are. 

Let us now suppose the two volumes containing 
the Old and New Testaments, the one in the origi- 
nal Hebrew, the other in the Greek, to be put into 
the hands of the theological student, accompanied 
with the command of Christ, search the scriptures. 
Investigate these volumes with diligence. What 
should be the first step in this investigation ? Ought 
he not to be well satisfied of the identity of these 
books, with those which formerly, existed ? Here 
is a Hebrew volume j but does it contain the same 
writings to which our Saviour referred? And 
does this Greek volume comprehend the very 



( 63 ) 

*books which were received as inspired hi the Apos- 
tolic age? In this inquiry, the biblical student 
may obtain complete satisfaction. With respect to 
the canon of the Old Testament, one fact will be 
sufficient to remove all doubt. These books have 
been in the possession of both Jews and Christians, 
ever since the commencement of the gospel dispen- 
sation ; and they now agree jn acknowledging the 
same books to be canonical; which, considering 
the inveterate opposition subsisting between them, 
is a convincing evidence, that the canon of the 
Old Testament has undergone no change, since the 
introduction of Christianity. And that it had un- 
dergone none before that period, may be proved 
from this circumstance, that although, our Lord of- 
ten upbraids the Jews with having perverted the 
scriptures, he never insinuates that they had altered 
or corrupted them. 

In confirmation of what has been said respecting 
the canon of the Old Testament, we might adduce 
the testimony of Josephus, and of the Christian 
Fathers ; who not only agree with one another in 
their catalogue of the books of the Old Testament 
but with the canonical list which we now hold. 
The books called Apocrypha, were never received 
into the canon by the Jews, nor by the earlier 
Christian Fathers and councils, and have therefore 
no just claim to be considered as belonging to the 
Old Testament. 



f 64 ) 

With regard to the New Testament, the evidence* 
is equally convincing. The Christian Church, 
was, in a short time, so widely extended, and em- 
braced so many different languages and nations, 
that a universal agreement, in this whole bpdy, 
through all the successive periods of the church, in 
acknowledging the same books to be canonical* 
must satisfy every impartial mind that our New 
Testament is the very same which was received and 
held sacred by the primitive church. To strength- 
en this conclusion, it may be added, that at a very 
early period, these books were translated into many 
different languages ; several of which early trans- . 
lations, either in whole or in part, have come down . 
to our times ; and soipe of them have been preserv- 
ed among Christians unknown to their brethren of 
other countries, for many centimes. 

* 

In addition to this, it may be observed, that ac- 
curate lists of the books of the New Testament 
were made by early ecclesiastical writers, and also 
by general councils, which are stili extant, and 
agree with our catalogue of canonical books. It 
deserves to be mentioned also, that the churches 
in every part of the world held copies of these 
scriptures, which they preserved with the utmost 
vigilance 3 and quotations were made from them, 
by all the fathers ; so that a large portion of the 
New Testament might be collected from the 
works of the early ecclesiastical writers. Besides 



(6& ) 

there are still extant manuscript copies of the 
whole, or a part of the New Testament, from* 
twelve to fifteen hundred years old, which contain 
the same books that are comprehended in our print- 
ed volumes* 

What has now been asserted, respecting the 
universal consent with which the books of the New 
Testament were received by the ancient church, in 
all its parts, must be admitted, with the exception 
of those few books, which have been termed, Anti* 
legomena, because their divine authority was denied 
or disputed by some. Impartiality requires us 
*lso to state, that these books are not found in some 
of the oldest versions, as the Syriac, for instance ; 
and therefore it must be admitted that the evidence 
for their canonical authority is not so complete, as 
of the rest, which were ever undisputed* At the 
same time, it ought to be observed, that the chief 
reason of doubting, was, because these books, for 
a while, were not so generally known to the church* 
es : but as soon as they were accurately examined, 
and their evidence weighed, opposition to them 
ceased; and at no late period, they obtained an 
undisturbed place in the sacred canon. 

The theological student, having obtained satis- 
faction respecting the perfection of the canon of 
scripture, the next step in his investigation should 
relate to the integrity of the sacred text. For it is 

9 



possible that the canon might be complete, and yet 
the text might be so corrupted and mutilated as to 
leave it uncertain what the original of these books 
might have been. It is of importance, therefore, to 
be able to prove, that the scriptures have suffered no 
material injury, from the fraud of designing men, 
or from the carelessness of transcribers. In the 

• 

former part of the last century, this was a subject 
of warm altercation in the church. For whilst 
some maintained that the sacred text had not re- 
, ceived the slightest injury from the ravages of time,' 
others boldly asserted that it was greatly corrupted. 
The agitation of this question led to a more ex- 
tensive and accurate examination and collation of 
manuscript codices than had been before made, and 
gave rise to that species of Biblical criticism, 
which has, within the last half century, assumed so 
conspicuous a place in Theological science. Dis- 
tant countries were visited, the dark cells of clois- 
ters and monasteries explored, and all important li- 
braries ransacked, in search of copies of the scrip- 
tures. Learned men, with unparalleled diligence, 
employed their whole lives in the collation of 
manuscripts, and in noting every, even the smallest 
variation, in their readings. Their indefatigable 
labour and invincible perseverance in prosecuting 
this work, are truly astonishing. It has indeed, 
much the appearance of laborious trifling ; but upon 
the whole, though not always so designed, has 
proved serviceable to the cause of truth. For- 



(67). 

though the serous mind is at first astonished and 
confounded, upon being informed of the multitude 
of various readings, noted by Mills, Wetstein, and 
Griesbach, in the codices of the New Testament j 
and by Kennicot and De Rossi, in those of the 
Old ; yet it is relieved, when on careful examination 
it appears that not more than one of a hundred of 
these, makes the slightest variation in the sense, 
and that the whole of them do not materially affect 
one important fact or doctrine. It is true, a few 
important texts, in our received copies, have by 
this critical process, been rendered suspicious ; but 
this lias been more than compensated by the certain- 
ty which has been stamped on the great body of 
scripture, by having been subjected to this severe 
scrutiny. For the text of our Bibles having passed 
this ordeal, may henceforth bid defiance to suspi- 
cion of its integrity. And with respect to the dis- 
puted texts referred to above, one thing should ever 
be kept in mind ; that, granting that the evidence 
from the present view of ancient manuscripts, is 
against their genuineness, yet this may not be de- 
cisive. The learned Caw lays it down as a rule 
to direct us, in judging of the comparative excel- 
lence of the editions of the Fathers, " That the 
older the editions are, by so much the more faithful 
are they*." And assigns this reason for the rule, 
that the first editions were made from the best 

• HUtoria Litcraria Proleg* See. v. R. 1. 



( 68 ) • ' ^ 

manuscripts, which were commonly lost or destroy- 
ed, when the edition was completed. And I see 
hot why the same reason will not equally apply to 
the early editions of the scriptures. In fact, there 
is historical evidence, that the manuscripts used by 
cardinal Ximenes, in his Polyglott, have been des+ 
troyed, and they appear, from several circumstan- 
ces, to have been both numerous and ancient : and 
I am persuaded also, notwithstanding what Wets* 
tein and Michaelis have said to the contrary, that 
some of those used by Stephanas, in his editions of 
the New Testament, have also been lost. We can- 
not tell, therefore, what the evidence for these texts 
might have been to these learned editors. Cer- 
tainly very strong, or they would not have inserted 
them. 

The next step in this investigation, would be, to 
ascertain, that these books are genuine \ or were 
written by the persons whose names they bear ; but 
as this appears to me to be substantially answered, 
by what has been already said, and by what will 
be added under the next article, I will not now 
make it a subject of particular discussion ; but will 
proceed to inquire into the authenticity and inspira* 
lion of the scriptures. I join these two things to- 
gether, because, although a book may be authentic 
without being inspired ; yet if the Bible be authen* 
tic, it must have been given by inspiration, for the 
writers profess that they were inspired. 



( 69 ) 

The truth of this point may be established by 
several species of evidence, quite distinct from each 
other. 

It may, in the first place, be demonstrated by 
proving the truth of the facts recorded in the scrip* 
tures. These facts, many of them, being obviously 
of a miraculous nature, if admitted to have exist* 
ed, will indubitably prove, that those persons by 
whom they were performed, must have been sent 
and assisted of God : for, as the Jewish ruler right- 
ly reasoned, " no man could do these things unless 
God were with him." Now the truth of these mi- 
racles may be established by testimony, like other 
ancient facts ; and also by the history of them be- 
ing so interwoven with other authentic history, that 
we cannot separate them: and especially, by that 
chain of events, depending on them, and reaching 
down to our own time, which has no other assigna- 
ble origin but the existence of these miracles. For, 
to believe in the events which the history of the 
church presents to us, and yet deny the miracles of 
the goSp£l, would be as absurd, as believing that a 
chain which hung suspended before our eyes, had 
nothing to support it, because that support was out 
of sight. As to the witnesses of these facts, thev 
are such, and deliver their testimony under such 
circumstances, and in such a manner, as to demand 
our assent. The impossibility of successfully im- 
pugning this testimony, obliged the most insidious 



( 70 ) 

enemy of Christianity to resort to the principle, 
' that no testimony is sufficient to confirm a mira- 
cle :' bat the absurdity of this position, has been 
fully demonstrated by Campbell, Vince, and others, 
and it has also been shown by an ingenious'writer*, 
that the gospel was true, even upon this author's 
own principles, because its falsehood would involve 
a greater miracle than any recorded in it 

The next species of evidence in support of the 
proposition under consideration, is derived from 
prophecy. If the Scriptures contain predictions of 
events which no human sagacity could have fore- 
seen; if they have foretold events the most im- 
probable, which have occurred in exact conformity 
with the prediction ; and if they have described a 
person combining in his character and life, traits 
and events apparently incompatible and inconsist- 
ent j and yet a person has appeared answering lite- 
rally to this description, then certainly the writers 
of these predictions were inspired. But such is 
the fact. * This sure word of prophecy' is, indeed, 
like ' a light that shineth in a dark place ;' but it is 
also like the light of the dawn which ' shineth more 
and more unto the perfect day.' Other evidence 
may lose something of its force by the lapse of time, 
but this grows brighter and stronger with every re- 
volving year j for the scope of prophecy compre- 

• Fide Brit. Encyclofi. vol, 14. 



( 71 ) 

hends all ages ; and new events are continually oc- 
curring which had been long foretold by the ora- 
cles of Gob. The third species of evidence for 
the authenticity and inspiration of the scriptures, 
arises out of "their contents. The extraordinary, 
and superlatively excellent nature of the Christian 
religion, proves that it could not have been the pro- 
duction of impostors, nor of unassisted fishermen ; 
per indeed, of any description of uninspired men. 
Its doctrines exhibit that very information, which is 
necessary to satisfy the anxious inquiries of man, 
conscious of his guilt and desirous of salvation. 
Its precepts are so sublimely excellent, so marked 
with sanctity and benevolence; and at the same 
time so perfectly adapted to human nature and hu- 
man circumstances, that the brightest wit can de- 
tect no flaw, nor suggest any improvement. " The 
heavens declare the glory of God j" and so does the 
holy page of Scripture. It bears the stamp of 
divinity in its face ; and breathes a spirit which 
could originate no where else but in heaven. An- 
other evidence, but connected with the last, is the 
blessed tendency and holy efficacy of the gospel to 
reform the hearts and lives of men, and to produce 
peace and joy in the mind and conscience; which 
effects never could result from any false religion. 

• 

The success of the gospel, in its commencement, 
is also an important consideration. When we con- 
template the resistance which was to be overcome, 



( n ) 

both external, from religious and civil establish- 
ments, and internal, from the inveterate prejudices 
&nd vices of men; and then take into view the 
means by which all these obstacles were surmount- 
ed, we cannot refuse to admit that the power of the 
Almighty accompanied them. 

The beneficial effects of Christianity on those na* 
tions which have received it, is a striking fact, and 
furnishes a strong argument in favour of the au- 
thenticity and inspiration of the Scriptures. Un? 
der their benign influence, war has become less 
sanguinary and ferocious ; justice has been more 
equally distributed; the poor have been more gene- 
rally instructed, and their wants supplied ; asylums 
have been provided for the unfortunate and distress- 
ed ; the female character has been appreciated and 
exalted to its proper standard in society ; the matri- 
monial bond has been held more sacred ; and poly- 
gamy, the bane of domestic happiness, discounte- 
nanced. In short, the whole fabric of society has 
been meliorated; and real civilization promoted 
by Christianity, wherever it has been received : 
and the above mentioned effects have borne an ex- 
act proportion to the purity in which this holy re- 
ligion was preserved, and the degree of conformi- 
ty to its precepts which has existed among any peo- 
ple. 

The next question which should engage the at- 



( ?8 ) 

tention of the theological student, is, for what pur- 
pose were the Scriptures given ? In answer to 
this, ail are ready to agree, that they were intended 
to be a guide to man in matters of religion ; a rule 
of faith and practice. But here several important 
questions occur. Are the scriptures the only rule ? 
Are they a sufficient rule ? Are they an authorita- 
tive rule ? and were they only designed to guide 
us in matters of religion ? 

Our first controversy is with the Romanists, who 
maintain that tradition is also a rule of faith; and 
that' the Scriptures without tradition are neither a 
sufficient nor intelligible rule. But this opinioii 
takes away all that fixedness and certainty, which at 
written revelation was intended and calculated to 
give to religion. Wherein consists the advantage 
of having a part of the will of God committed to 
-writing, if the interpretation of this depends on 
the uncertain and varying light of oral tradition ? 
We might as well have nothing but tradition, as 
be under the necessity of resorting to this uncertain 
guide to lead us to the true meaning of the written 
word. But had it been intended to make this the 
channel of communicating the divine will to pos» 
terity, some method would have been devised, to 
preserve the stream of tradition pure. No such me- 
thod has been made known. On the contrary, the 
Scriptures predict a general and awful apostacy in 
the church. It could not be otherwise, but that 

10 



( 7^ ) 

during this period, tradition would become a cor* 
nipt channel of information. This apostocy has 
taken place ; and the stream of tradition has, in 
fact, become so muddy, and so swelled with fo- 
reign accessions, from every quarter, that Christiani- 
ty, viewed through this medium, exhibits the appear- 
ance of a deformed and monstrous mass of super* 
stition. But, if we should admit the principle, that 
the constant tradition of the church should be our 
guide, where shall we go to look for it ? To the 
Greek, to the Latin, or to the Syriac church ? To 
the 4th, 9th, or 14th, century ? For there is no uni- 
formity ; not even in the infallible Catholic Church. 
Every one in the least acquainted with ecclesiasti- 
cal history, must know, that not only has the prac- 
tice varied, at different times, in very important 
matters ; but also the Bulls of Popes, and Decrees 
and Canons of Councils, have often been in perfect 
collision with one another: and, what is worst 
of all, have often been in direct hostility with the 
word of God. For the same thing has happened 
to tradition in the Christian, as formerly in the Jew- 
ish church. * It hath made the word of God of 
none effect, $ teaching for doctrines the command* 
ments of men.' 

But whilst we reject tradition as a rule of truth, 
we do not deny the utility of having recourse to 
the early practice of the church, for the illustration 



( w ) 

of Scripture, where there is any doubt respecting 
apostolic practice or institution. 

There are two other ©pinions, by which the suffi- 
ciency and authority of the Scriptures, as a rule 
of faith and practice, are invalidated. These, 
though held by persons erring on opposite extremes, 
agree in derogating from the respect due to the 
Scriptures. 

• The first is, the opinion of those who will not 
believe any thing, though contained in Scripture, 
which does not correspond with their own reason. 
If, for instance, a thousand passages of Scripture 
could he adduced, explicitly teaching the doctrine 
of the Trinity > of original sin, of efficacious grace 9 
if vicarious sufferings, or eternal punishments, they 
would not admit them, because they have determin- 
ed all these to be contrary to reason ; and therefore 
the scriptures must be so interpreted, as to exclude 
all such doctrines; and the texts which support 
them, must be tortured by the critical art, or per- 
verted by the wiles of sophistry, until they are si- 
lent, or speak a different language. Now, the only 
mystery in the religion of these sons of reason, is 
that they should want a revelation at all. Certainly 
it would be more consistent to reject Christianity 
wholly, than whilst professing to receive it in the 
general, to deny almost all the particular doctrines 
of which the general system is composed. For 



( 76 ) 

my own part, I cannot consider Socinianism in any 
Other light than Deism masked. At any rate, they 
are nearly related. If that has a little stronger 
faith, this has the advantage on the score of con- 
sistency. 

The other opinion referred to, is that of fanatics 
in general, who, whilst they confess that the scrip- 
tures are divinely inspired, imagine that tliey are 
possessed of the same inspiration. And some, in 
our own times, have proceeded so far, as to boast of 
revelations, by which the Scriptures are entirely 
superseded as a rule of faith and practice*. Now, 
the difference between these persons, and the holy 
men of God who wrote the Scriptures, consists in 
two things. First, the inspired writers could give 
some external evidence, by miracle or prophecy, to 
prove their pretensions ; but enthusiasts can furnish 
no such evidence : and secondly, the productions of 
the prophets and apostles, were worthy of God, and 
bore his impress ; but the discourses of these men, 
except what they repeat from Scripture, are wholly 
Unworthy their boasted origin, and more resemble 
the dreams of the sick, or the ravings of the insane, 
than the ' words of truth and soberness.' 

But, on the other hand, there have been some 



• Vide c The testimony of Christ's secsnd aflflearing.l 
By the people vailed Shakbics. 



. ( w ) 

who believed, that the scriptures not only furnish a 
rule to guide us in our religion, but a complete sys- 
tem of philosophy ; that the true theory of the uni- 
verse is revealed in the first chapters of Genesis ; 
and that there is an intimate connexion betwixt the 
natural and spiritual world. The one containing a 
aort of emblematical representation of the other ; 
so that even the high mystery of the Trinity is sup- 
posed to be exhibited by the material fluid, which 
pervades the universe, in its different conditions, of 
fire, light, and air. John Hutchinson, Esq. of Eng- 
land, took the lead in propagating this system, and 
has been followed by some men of great name and 
great worth. Jones, Home, Parkhurst, Spearman, 
and Bates, would be no discredit to any cause. 
But, although, we acknowledge, that there is some- 
thing in this theory which is calculated to prepos- 
sess the pious mind in its favour ; yet it is too deep- 
ly enveloped in clouds and darkness to admit of 
its becoming generally prevalent. And if what 
these learned men suppose, had been the object* of 
revelation, no doubt, some more certain clue would 
have been given to assist us to ascertain the mind 
of the Spirit, than the obscure, though learned, criti- 
cisms of Hutchinson. 

The next question which occurs, in the course of 
this investigation, is very important. How should 
the Scriptures be interpreted, in order that we may 
arrive at their true and Jull meaning ? The obvi- 



( 78 ) 

cms answer would be, by attending to the grammati* 
cal and literal sense of the words employed, to the 
force and significance of the figures and allusions 
used, and to the idiom of the languages in which 
they are written. But here we are met by a very 
important and embarrassing question* Is the lite- 
ral meaning of Scripture, always, or generally, tha 
principal and ultimate sense ; or, are we to suppose 
that under this, there is a recondite, spiritual mean- 
ing contained? Most of the Fathers considered 
the Scriptures to contain a double sense ; the one 
literal, the other mystical or allegorical ; and they 
regarded the first vary little except in relation to 
the second. ' The Romanists maintain an opinion 
very similar } but the mystical sense they divide in- 
to several parts. And among Protestants, there are 
many who discover a strong predilection for tjiis 
mode of interpretation. 

But this principle, admitted without limitation or 
qualification, has a direct tendency to overthrow all 
certainty in divine revelation. For, as there is no 
certain key to this mystical or spiritual meaning, 
every man makes it out according to the liveliness 
of his own imagination : and weak men by their 
fanciful expositions greatly degrade the dignity 
and mar the beauty of revealed truth. 

The followers of Baron &tvedenborg f not con- 
tented with two, maintain that the Scriptures con* 



( ™ ) 

. tain three senses, the celestial, spiritual, and natural, 
.which are connected by correspondences. This 
doctrine of correspondences, is, according to them* 
the only key to open the true meaning of Scrip- 
ture; which was, for many ages, lost, but recently 
was made known to this extraordinary nobleman. 
Notwithstanding the extravagance of this system, 
it has charms for some persons, and these not of 
the illiterate vulgar. It is a sort of refined mysti- 
cism, which corresponds with the peculiar turn of 
some minds, that are fond of novelty, and disdain 
to walk in the old beaten track. Reasoning or 
argument, with those who profess to hold familiar 
intercourse with angels, would, I presume, he su- 
perfluous. We shall leave them therefore to enjoy 
their visions of a terrestrial heaven, without inter- 
ruption , whilst we proceed to observe, 

That among the orthodox themselves, there is 
no small difference of opinion respecting the ex~ 
tent which may be given to the meaning of scrip- 
ture. The celebrated Cocceius laid it down as a 
rule, that scripture slumld be considered as signify* 
ing all that it could be made to signify. The whole 
of the Old Testament, in his opinion, was eithe* 
typical or prophetical of Messiah and his kingdom. 
Here, as in a glass, he supposed the future desti- 
nies of the church might be viewed. The learned 
Grotius verged to the very opposite extreme, in his 
J deas of the interpretation of scripture. This gave 



( m ) 

rise to a saying which became proverbial, respect* 
ing these two great men ; and which is highly cre- 
ditable to the piety of the former ; " Grotium nus- 
quam in sacris Uteris invenire Christum, Cocceium 
ubique.' ' That Grotxns could find Const no where 
in the Bible, Cocceius every where/ 

This rule of Cocceius, however, is liable to great 
abuse ; and as Limbarch justly observes, ' is calcu- 
lated to make of the Scriptures a mere Lesbian 
rule, or nose of wax, which may be bent into any 
shape ; and seems to be no other than the old alle- 
gorical method of interpretation, introduced under 
a new name/ 

But, on the other hand, it is certain, that many of 
the persons, occurrences, and ceremonies, of the Old 
Testament, are typical ; and some things are thus 
interpreted in the New Testament, which we never 
should have conjectured to possess any meaning 
beyond the literal, unless we had been otherwise 
taught by inspiration. Besides, all judicious com- 
mentators are forced to admit, that , many of the 
prophecies have a primary and secondary reference, 
erven the most important of those which relate to 
Messiah, are of this description. Those who in- 
sist that one meaning and no more belongs to eve- 
ry text, are greatly at a loss how to reconcile with 
their opinion, the quotations made from the Old 
Testament in the Pfew, where they are expressly 



( « ) 

said to be fulfilled, though certainly, many of them, 
not in their primary and literal sense. Under the 
guidance of sound sense and just criticism, we 
should pursue a middle course between these two 
extremes. But although we cannot admit the rule 
of Cocceius in all its latitude, nor go the whole 
way with his followers ; yet it is but justice to ac- 
knowledge, that some of them deserve to be rank- 
ed with the first expositors and theologians who 
have appeared in the church. As long as truth, 
piety, and solid learning, shall be held in esteem, 
the names, of Witsius, Vitringa, Burman, Van Til, 
and Bfaunius, will be dear to the theological stu- 
dent. 

Upon the whole, our conclusion respecting this 
matter, is, that every particular passage of scrip- 
ture should be interpreted according to the pecu- 
liar circumstances of the case : the literal should be 
considered as the true and only meaning, unless 
some remoter sense be indicated by some peculiar 
aptitude, correspondence, or fitness, in the words 
and ideas of the text ; or unless it be referred to 
something else in the Scriptures themselves. Good 
sense and the analogy of faith, are the guides which 
we should follow in interpreting the Bible. 

We come now to consider the helps which the 
biblical student needs, to enable him to search the 
scriptures with success. The volumes which we 

* 11 



( 82 ) 

have already supposed to be put into his hands, are 
not written in our vernacular tongue. We have, it 
is true, an excellent translation of the scriptures ; 
but this was not made by inspiration, and cannot 
therefore possess the same authority and infallibili- 
ty, with the originals. We admit the lawfulness 
and utility of translations for the use of the people ; 
but nothing can be more evident, than that the ex- 
pounder of scripture should be well acquainted 
with the very * words by which the Holy Ghost 
teacheth' us the will of God. The knowledge of 
the Hebrew and Greek languages, therefore, is a 
necessary pre-requisite to the successful study of 
the scriptures. I think I may venture to assert, 
that this single acquisition will be of more import- 
ance to the theological student, than all the com- 
mentaries which have ever been written. By this 
means, he will be able to see with his own eyes ; 
and will be qualified to judge for himself. 

Every person who has had experience, will ac- 
knowledge, that even in reading the plainest texts, 
there is a satisfaction and advantage to be derived 
from the original, which cannot easily be explained. 
It becomes therefore a duty incumbent on all who 
are candidates for the sacred office, or invested with 
it, to endeavour to become acquainted with the ori- 
ginal Scriptures. 

** * - * 

But in all writings, and especially such as con- 



( » ) 

tain historical facts, there are frequent allusions to 
the existing customs of the country, and to the pre- 
vailing opinions of ' the people, where the book was 
written. The same is found to be the case with 
the scriptures. Many passages would be quite un- 
intelligible, without some acquaintance with Jewish 
antiquities. The customs and manners of that 

people should, therefore, be studied with particular 
attention. 

And as scriptural history frequently refers to 
the condition, character, and transactions of co- 
temporaneous nations, it is of importance to be well 
acquainted with their history, as delivered to us by 
profane authors. There is, however, a more im- 
portant reason why the Biblical student should 
be well versed in history, ancient and modern; 
and that is, because there he must look for the 
accomplishment of many important prophecies. 
Even the fulfilment of the remarkable prediction 
of Christ, respecting the destruction of Jerusalem, 
is not recorded in scripture, but must be sought in 
the Jewish and Roman historians. 

Chronology and geography are also requisite 
helps, to enable us to understand many parts of 
scripture. .These have been called the eyes of 
history ; and they are not more so of civil, than sa- 
cred history. 



( 84 ) 

Even modern travels bave been turned, by some 
learned men, to a very important account, in ex- 
plaining the scriptures. For oriental customs and 
modes of living, have not been subject to the same 
capricious changes, which have prevailed in the 
western nations. And therefore, by observing 
carefully what oriental customs are, at this day, a 
very probable opinion may be formed, of what 
they were two thousand years ago. This observa- 
tion holds good, particularly, in relation to such 
Eastern nations as have never been conquered, 
nor incorporated with any other people; as the 
Arabs, for instance. 

Indeed, to speak the truth, there is scarcely any 
science or branch of knowledge, which may not 
be made subservient to theology. Natural history, 
chemistry, and geology, have sometimes been of 
important service, in assisting the Biblical student 
to solve difficulties contained in scripture; or in 
enabling him to repel the assaults of adversaries, 
which were made under cover of these sciences. 
A general acquaintance with the whole circle of 
science is of more consequence to the Theologian, 
than at first sight appears. Not to mention the in- 
timate connexion which subsists between all the 
parts of truth, in consequence of which important 
light may often be collected from the remotest 
quarters; it may be observed, that the state of 
learning in the world requires the advocate of the 



( w ) 



Bible, to attend to many things which may not in 
themselves be absolutely necessary. Ue must 1 
maintain his standing as a man pf learning. He 
must be able to converse on the various topics of 
learning with other literary men ; otherwise the due 
respect will not be paid to him j and his sacred of- 
fice may suffer contempt, in consequence of his ap- 
pearing to be ignorant of what it is expected all 
learned men should be acquainted with. 

But next to the knowledge of the original Ian* 
guages, an acquaintance with early translations is 
most important. The Septuagint, the Chaldaic 
paraphrase, the Syriae, and the Vulgate, deserve 
to be particularly mentioned. 

The Septuagint is an invaluable treasure to the 
student of sacred literature. . Most of the Fathers, 
and several learned moderns, believed it to have 
been made by inspiration ; and others, as well a» 
these, have preferred it to the Hebrew original. 
But this is certainly attributing too much to it. 
The fabulous account of the miraculous manner 
in which it was executed, given by Aruteas, which 
misled, the fathers, is now generally exploded ; and 
this was the principal ground on which the opinion 
of its inspiration rested. It has been pleaded also, 
that this version was constantly quoted by Christ 
and his Apostles j but our Lord himself could not 
have used it, as he spoke and conversed not in the 



•v.. 



( 86 ) 

Greek, but the Syriac language. And although it 
is true, that the Apostles and Evangelists common- 
ly quote from it, yet not uniformly. Sometimes they 
differ from it, and give a better translation of the 
original. It has also been plausibly stated, that 
the manuscripts from which this version was made, 
must have been much more perfect than any, now 
extant, after the lapse of two thousand years. But 
it ought to be remembered, that the copies of the 
translation have been as liable to the injuries of 
time, as those of the original : and indeed much 
more so ; for providence raised up a set of men, 
who watched over the Hebrew text with unceasing 
and incomparable vigilance. The Masorites de- 
voted their lives to this object ; and to prevent all 
possibility of corruption or alteration, they number- 
ed not only the words, but the letters, of every book 
in the Bible. No such means were employed for 
the preservation of the text of the ulx ; and accord- 
ingly the various readings in the copies of this ver- 
sion, are far more numerous and important than 
those of the Hebrew original. But whilst we re- 
ject the high claims for this version, which go to 
place it on a level with, or give it the preference to, 
the original; we willingly acknowledge its im- 
portance ; and what is remarkable, is, its utility is 
greater in relation to the New Testament, than the 
Old ; for it is written in that very dialect of the 
Greek language, in which the books of the New 
Testament are written; that is, the words are 



\ 



OS 



Greek, but the idiom Hebrew. It is therefore of 
more importance in assisting us to understand the 
language of the New Testament, than all other 
Greek authors beside. 

This version has, by the consent of all, been con- 
sidered the oldest extant ; but a recent writer in 

, - •» 

The Christian Observer** asserts that the Syri- 
ac translation of the Old Testament, contains in- 
ternal marks of an antiquity superior to that of the 
Septuagint. The evidence of the fact, if it be so, 
must be internal ; for I believe it is eertain, that 
there is no external testimony which will support 
this assertion. 

The Chaldaic paraphrase has commonly been re- 
ferred to the time of Christ's advent, or to a period 
a little earlier ; but the above-mentioned writer as- 
serts that it is nearly as old as the time of Ezra. 
Without stopping to inquire into the validity of 
this opinion, I would observe, that these paraphras- 
es are of no small importance to ,the interpreter of 
scripture, as they serve to show how the Jewish 
doctors understood certain passages prior to the 
birth of Christ ; and clearly prove, that they refer- 
red to the expected Messiah, all or most of those 
prophecies, which we apply to Christ. 

• N*. for July, 1811. 



( 88 ) 

The Syriac version of the Netv Testament is 
very valuable, on account of its antiquity ; and has 
some shadow of claim to the authority of an ori- 
ginal ; for it is written in the same, or very nearly 
the same language, which our Lord used when he 
delivered his sermons and instructions to the peo- 
ple ; and may therefore be supposed to contain, in 
many instances, the identical words which he utter- 
ed. In the opinion of some, it was made at the 
close of the Apostolic age, or at furthest some time 
in the second century: but others refer it to the 
third, fourth, or even the fifth, century. However 
these things may be, it cannot be doubted, but 
that much advantage may be derived from this 
version in searching the scriptures; and accord- 
ingly much use has been made of it by the learned, 
of late, in solving difficulties and elucidating ob- 
scure passages, which occur in the New Testa- 
ment : and being written in a language possessing 
a near affinity with the Hebrew, it is easily accessi- 
ble to the Hebrew scholar. 

The Vulgate, is commonly supposed to have 
been made by Jerome, and to have succeeded to 
older latin versions. It was, for many ages, the only 
medium through which the revelation contained in 
holy Scripture, was viewed in the western part of 
the church. The Romanists, considering that this • 
version could be made to favour their pretensions 
and corruptions, more than the original, bent all 



\ 



( *> ) 

their force to the support of its authority ; Whilst 
at the same time, they let slip no opportunity of 
disparaging the Hebrew text. At length they 
proceeded so far as to decree, in the Council of 

Trent, ' that it should be reckoned as the authentic 

• 

standard by which all disputations, preachings f and 
expositions, should be judged; and that no person 
should dare to reject its authority on any pretext 
whatever.' The more libera* Catholics themselves, 
are ashamed of the unblushing effrontery of this 
decree ; and what slender foundation there was for 
so high a claim, may be conjectured from this cir- 
cumstance, that a learned man* of their own com- 
munion declares, that he had himself noted eighty 
thousand errors in this version. But, nevertheless, 
it may be useful in many ways to the Biblical stu- 
dent) and being written in Latin, is accessible to 
every scholar. And here I will take occasion to 
remark, the great importance of a familiar ac- 
quaintance with the Latin language, to the Theolo- 
gian. Although no part of scripture is written in 
that language, yet it is almost essentially necessary 
to pass through this vestibule, in order to arrive at 
the knowledge of any other ancient language; 
most valuable grammars and dictionaries being 
written in Latin: and almost all Theological 
works, not designed for the immediate use of the 
people, were composed in this language, prior to 

* Isidore C tortus* 

12 



( »0 ) 

the middle of the last century, a very small portion 
of which have been translated into English. The 
coarse of theological study would indeed be very 
much circumscribed, if we were destitute of this 
key to unlock its rich treasures. It would lead 
me into a discussion too long, to consider, what 
assistance may be derived from the writings of the 
Fathers; what from the Schoolmen; what from 
the Reformers; and what from more modern 
commentators and critics, in the interpretation of 

the scriptures. The time allotted for this dis- 
course, would be entirely insufficient to do justice 
to this subject. I shall therefore leave it untouched, 
and proceed to mention, 

A help, which, though put in the last place, in 
this discourse, is of more real importance than all 
the rest ; and that is, the illumination and assistance 
of the Holy Spirit Illumination differs from in- 
spiration in this respect ; that whereas by the lat- 
ter we are made acquainted with truths before un- 
revealed, or unknown, by the former we are ena- 
bled to discern the beauty and real nature of the 
truths contained in a revelation already made. It 
is obvious, that in the study of divine truth, much 
depends on the temper and condition of the stu- 
dent's mind. A proud and self-sufficient person, 
however endowed with acuteness of intellect, and 
furnished with stores of literature, is continually 
prone to fall into pernicious error ; whilst the hum- 



( 91 > 

We man occupies a station from which truth may be 
viewed to advantage. Prejudice, proceeding from 
education or passion, blinds the mind, and warps 
the judgment ; but the sincere and ardent love of 
truth disposes as to view die whole evidence, and 
impartially to weigh the arguments on both sides 
of any question. As much therefore depends upon 
preserving our own minds in a proper state, as upon 
the diligent use of external means of information. 
The conclusion from these premises is, that the 
student of sacred literature should be possessed of 
sincere and ardent piety. He should be a man 
' taught of God,' conscious of his own insufficien- 
cy, but confident of the help of the Almighty. In- 
deed, when we consider the weakness of the human 
intellect, and the various prejudices and false im- 
pressions to which it is constantly liable, we must 
be convinced^ that without divine assistance, there 
is little hope of arriving at the knowledge of truth, 
or preserving it when acquired. He, who would 
understand the Scriptures, therefore, ought not to 
4 lean to his own understanding/ but by continual 
and earnest prayer, should look unto the * Father of 
lights/ from whom proceedeth every good and eve- 
ry perfect gift; and who hath promised to give 
wisdom to those who lack it, and ask for it. 

There is no person who needs more to be in the 
constant exercise of prayer, than the Theological 
student : not only at stated periods, but continually, 



( » > 

it* the i*i<kt of bj& studies, his heart should bft rais- 
ed to heaven far help and dkeekwa. A defect 
1tt4e,ib in to be feared, is one principal leaeon why 
s* nwjch tinre and labour ate often eaapfeyed m 
theological studies, with so little profit to the 
church. Thai knowledge which pufietjh up i&.&o- 
quired ; but charity, which edifietb, is neglected. 

When the serious mind falls, into doubt lespeefc-* 
i*g divine truths, the remedy is not always xsasen- 
i&g and argument, but divine illumination. The 
i?*nd may be in. such a state, that it is father per- 
plexed* than relieved,, by mere human reasoning ; 
but at such times a lively impression made by the 
Spirit of truth, banishes all doubt and hesitation ;. 
and then, the same texts, or arguments which were 
before unavailing to our conviction and satisfaction, 
exhibit the truth in a light as clear- as demonstra- 
tion. This may appear to some to savour of en- 
thusiasm. Be it so. It. is, however, an enthusi- 
asm essential to the very nature of our holy 
religion, without which it would be a mere dry 
system of speculation, of ethics and ceremonies. 
But this divine illumination is its life, its soul, its- 
essence. It is true, this influence is not peculiar to 
the theologian. Every sincere christian, in his mea- 
sure, partakes of this * anointing/ by which he is 
taught to know all things j but the teacher of reli- 
gion needs a double portion of this spirit. How of- 
ten does the minister of the gospel, labour and toil 



( M ) 

wafcfc all his might, without producing any thing o£ 
iHOportanee, for edification !* But if he receive the 
aid* «f the Spirit, his test i& opened and illustrated, 
veilbmfc my painfal exertion of his own. He is 
conscious, indeed, that he is a mere recipient The 
train of thought which occupies his mind, appears 
to ori ginate in some occult catise, which he cannot 
trace. And happy would it be for preachers, 
happy for their hearers, if there were more depend- 
ence on divine assistance, not only in the composi- 
tion, but in the delivery of sermons ! When God 
shall appear in his glory,, to build up Jerusalem, he 
will raise up, I have no doubt, a race of preachers, 
who shall partake of this heavenly gift, in a much 
higher degree than has heretofore been common. 
He will bring forward to the sacred office, men pos- 
sessing boldness, founded on their reliance upon di- 
vine assistance j clearness, proceeding from divine 
illumination ; and that unction which flows from 
the sweet and lively experience of the truth deliver- 
ed, in the heart of the preacher. The solicitous, and 
often unsuccessful, effort to rise to some artificial 
standard of oratory, shall then yield to nobler mo- 
tives ; and the preacher, like Paul, shall be willing 
to make a sacrifice of his own reputation for learning, 
and refinement, at the foot of the cross : and to 
count alL things but loss for the excellency of 
the knowledge of Jesus Christ his Loud. Gospel 
simplicity and sincerity, shall then be preferred by 
the Man of God, to all the soaring flights of eloquence, 



( 94 ) 

and to all the splendid trappings and tinsel of hu- 
man science. May it please the Lord of the 
vineyard speedily to send forth many such labour- 
ers into his harvest ; for the harvest is great, and the 
labourers are few! 

I will now bring this discourse to a conclusion, 
by offering some motives to excite the Theological 
student to diligence in the perusal of the sacred 
scriptures. 

A book has a claim upon our time and study, oa 
account of the authority by which it comes recom- 
mended, the excellency of the matter comprehend- 
ed in it, and the interest which we have involved in 
the knowledge of its contents. On all these ac- 
counts the Bible has the highest possible claim on 
our attention. It comes to us, as we have proved, 
authenticated as the word of God ; stamped as it 
were with the signature of heaven ; and receona- 
mended to our diligent perusal by the Lord Je- 
sus Christ. The matter which it contains, is, like 
its origin, divine : truth, pure, glorious and all impor- 
tant truth, constitutes the subject of this Book. The 
saying ascribed to Mr. Locke, when he took leave 
of a beloved relation, shortly before his end, was 
worthy of that profound genius ; " Study," said he, 
" the Sacred Scriptures; they have God for their 
author, truth without mixture of error for their 
matter, and eternal life for their end." If we should 



( 95 ) 

take the lowest view of the subject, and form our 
opinion of the scriptures by the same rules by 
which we judge of human compositions, they will 
be found to transcend the highest efforts of human 
genius, as far as the heavens are above the earth. 
Hear on this subject, the decision of a scholar, in 
whom learning and taste in their highest perfection 
were combined ; " I have regularly and attentively 
read these holy scriptures, and am of opinion that 
this volume, independently of its divine origin, con- 
tains more sublimity and beauty, purer morality, 
and finer strains of poetry and eloquence, than can 
be collected from all other books, in whatever age 
or language they may have been composed.*" But 
the excellency of the Scriptures cannot be appreci- 
ated by the rules of human criticism. As well 
might we think of judging of the proportions of the 
celestial arch, or the location of the stars in the vast 
expanse, by the rules of architecture. The word of 
God, like his works, is on a plan too vast, too sub- 
lime, too profound, to be measured by the feeble in- 
tellect of man. . V 

Fully to explain how worthy the scriptures are 
of our attention, on account of the matter compre- 
hended in them, would require us to exhibit all the 
truths which they contain j but as this cannot be 

* Found written in his own hand, on a blank leaf of Sir 
William Jane* 9 * Bible, after his death. 



done in one, or a few discourses, I will now com- 
tent myself with mentioning a few leading point* 
on which the scriptures furnish as with information 
of the most important kind. 

Li the first place, then, it is here, and here alone, 
that we can learn the true character of God. The 
indistinct outline, which may be traced in the works 
of creation, is here filled up* The knowledge of 
God, which could be derived from a view of his 
works, would not be sufficient for man* even in a 
atate of innocence; and much less so when he is 
fallen into sin* None have ever been able to form 
just conceptions of the Deity from the light of na- 
ture alone. A revelation was absolutely necessary 
Id teach man what God is ; and the Bible con- 
tains all the information which we need on this 
subject Here the divine glory is revealed. The 
moral attributes of Deity, especially, are represent- 
ed in the clearest, strongest light. Truths respect- 
ing the divine nature, are here revealed, concerning 
which, reason and philosophy could never have 
formed a conjecture. The glorious and mysterious 
doctrine of a Trinity in unity, is taught from the 
beginning to the end of the Bible j a doctrine of- 
fensive to the pride of man, but one which will af- 
ford subject for profound contemplation through 
eternity. From the scriptures we learn, not only 
that r>od is holy, just, merciful, and faithful ; but we 
behold these attributes harmonizing in a work which, 



( w ) 

According to alt the views that finite wisdom could 

have taken of it, must have placed them in a state 

of complete variance; that is, in the justification 

and salvation of a sinner. In the redemption of 

Christ these divine perfections not only appear har* 

monious; € mercy and truth ftaving met togetlter, 

ttnd righteousness and peace having kissed each 

vther f but in the cross, are exhibited with a lus- 

tre and glory, which, according to our conceptions, 

* could not have been given to them, in any other 

circumstances. If we ^rould know the only true 

God, then, we must ' search the Scriptures/ 

In the next place, we obtain from the Bible a sa- 
tisfactory account of the origin of evil, natural and 
moral. Not, indeed, an explanation of the reason 
why it Was permitted ; but such an account of its in- 
troduction, as is perfectly consistent with the honour 
and purity of the divine government. We here learn 
that God created man ' in a state of innocency, 
with freedom and power to will and do that which 
was well pleasing to himself, but yet mutable, so 
that he might fall from it 9 . This liberty was abus- 
ed by man : sin therefore owes its origin to the 
creature, who is wholly chargeable with its blame ; 
although it did not take place without the know- 
ledge, nor contrary to the purpose, of the infinite God* 
The first man being the root of all his posterity, 
and being appointed to act for them as well as for 
himself, they are involved with him in all the con- 
sequences of his fall ; for ' they sinned in him 
omdfell with him in his first transgression' AH 

13 



( *» ) 

ftp streams of sin and misery in the world, flow 
from this original fountain. And so deep and 
dreadful is this fail of man, that he is utterly una- 
)We to recover himself from the guilt and depravi- 
ty into which he is by mature sunk. 

The last mentioned article of information would 
be only calculated to plunge us into the depths of 
misery and despair, were it not, that the scriptures 
teach us the consoling doctrine of redemption. In- 
deed, the whole Bible may be considered as a his- 
tory of Redemption. Here we can trace the won- 
drous plan up to its origin, in the eternal counsels 
of peace. Here we read of the early develope- 
ment of this plan, after the fall, in paradise. The 
incarnation and victory of the glorious Redeemer 
was clearly intimated in the promise, ' that the seed 
of the woman sJiould bruise the serpent's head.' To 
this object, the faith of the pious was directed, by 
every new revelation and institution. Prophets, in 
long succession, with lips touched with hallowed 
fire, described and predicted Jmmanueh Although 
their prophecies axe often expressed in dark symbo- 
lical language, yet sometimes, from the midst of 
this darkness, there are vivid coruscations of light, 
which exhibit the promised Messiah as visibly, as if 
he had already come. At length the fulness of 
time arrived, and " God sent forth his Son mode of 
a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that 
were under tJte law" " God was now manifest in 
the Jksh" And He " who being in the form of 



( 99 ) 

God, thought it no robbery to be equal with God, 
Madt himself of no reputation, and took Upon him 
the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness 
#f men ; and being found in fashion as a man 9 he 
humbled himself and became obedient unto death* 
even the death of the cross ; whelrefore God also hath 
highly exalted him 9 and given him a name which is 
above every name. 9 * The redemption of die church 
by the blood of the Son of God, is a subject on 
which angels look with wonder ; and it is a subject, 
which, through eternity, will furnish a theme for 
the songs of the redeemed of the Lord* 

But the scriptures give us information, not only 
of the work of the Redeemer in procuring for tur 
an " everlasting righteousness ;" but also of the 
work of the Spirit, in uniting the redeemed soul to 
Jesus Christ j in regenerating, sanctifying, support- 
ing, guiding, and comforting it j until it is ' made 
meet for the inheritance of the saints in light/ 

Another important article of information which 
we find in the Scriptures of truth, is a clear expres- 
sion of the will of God, in relation to the duty of 
man* There are, it is true, traces of the law of 
God still remaining on the heart of every man ; but 
these are far from being sufficient to show him the 
full extent, and the spiritual nature, of the duties 
required of him* And what might be known from 
honestly inquiring of our own consciences, respect- 
ing our duty, is often missed through the influence 
of false principles, instilled into the mind by a de* 



( 100 ) 

fective education, and by customs become universally 
prevalent, through the cort-uption of human nature* 
But we need be no longer at a loss about the law 
of God. He condescended to publish it, with his 
own voice, in the hearing of all Israel; and to. 
write it with his own finger, on tables of stone. 
To explain this law, we have many comments from 
inspired men ; but especially we have the lucid ex- 
position of the Law- giver himself; and, what i* 
more important, we behold it fully illustrated and 
exemplified, in the obedience which he, in our na- 
ture, and for our sakes, rendered to it ; so that, if 
we now wish to know our duty, we have only to 
contemplate the character of Jesus Christ If we 
wish to do it, we have only to walk in his foot-steps. 

Finally, the scriptures contain a distinct and full 
revelation of futurity, as far as it is necessary for 
us to know what is to be hereafter. In them, 
" life and immortality are brought to light." Full 
assurance is given, by the testimony of one who 
cannot lie, that * an exceeding great and eternal 
weight of glory' is reserved for the people of God 
in another world. In the New Testament, we are 
made familiar with heaven, by the frequency with 
which it is mentioned and described. The existence 
of a future world is no longer left to be collected 
by uncertain reasoning, and probable conjecture. 
It is now a matter of testimony. Faith has a firm 
ground on which to rest ; for this truth is linked 
with every fact and doctrine of the gospel ; is seen in 
every promise and. threatening under the new dis- 



( ioi ) 

pensation. But the scriptures reveal not only a 
heaven of glory,. but a hell of horror; a dark and 
" bottomless pit/' where ' the worm dieth not, and 
where the fire is not quenched,' and where " there is 
weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth' They 
give us the certain assurance, also, of a day being 
appointed in which God will judge the world in 
righteousness by that man whom he hath ordain- 
ed; and in which they that are in their graves 
shall rise, some to everlasting life and glory, and 
others to everlasting shame and contempt. 

From this brief survey of what the scriptures 
teach us, we must be convinced of the great im- 
portance of . being well acquainted with them. 
Oar own salvation is involved in the right know- 
ledge of this book; and if we are teachers of 
others, how important is it, that we ' as good stew- 
ards of the mysteries of Gob,' be ' able rightly to 
divide the word of truth, giving to every one his 
portion in due season.' We should, therefore, 
" meditate on these things, and give ourselves wholly 
to them, that our profitting may appear unto all.' 9 
We must " take heed unto ourselves, and to our doc- 
trine,, and continue in them; for by so doing we 
shall both save ourselves and them that hear us." 

But we shall not only find the scriptures to be a 
source of profitable instruction; a rich mine of 
truth which has never yet been fully explored ; but 
also a source Qf pure and permanent delight. 



( «» ) 

Arthtmturd tight i?pie»a&t toUbfe eyes, m it 
truth to die understanding, unlets some iriorat di*- 
tareremlerits approach unacceptable. 'Tbey whose 
deeds aire' evil* love darkness rather than hght } but 
the regenerate mid € rejoice* in the truth.' Food 
to the hungry is not more pleasant, nor cold water 
none refreshing to the thirsty, than evangelical 
troth to the pioos mind. It is, indeed, the bread of 
fcfo which cometh dowto from heaven; the hidden* 
manna, with which the spiritual Israel are fed, 
whilst they sojourn in this wilderness. The per- 
son who has been taught of God, prefers the truths 
of his word to all earthly treasures, and to all the 
sweets of nature. ' More are they to be desired, than 
gold, yea, than much fine gold : sweeter also thtem 
honey and the honey comb. 9 ' The law of thy 
mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and 
silver.' ' Thy statutes have been my song in the 
house of my pilgrimage.' How delightful must 
it be to sit as a disciple at the feet of Jesus, and 
wkh a child-like docility, imbibe precious instruc- 
tion, from his word and Spirit ! When we fall under 
the power of some overwhelming temptation, or 
when dark clouds of adversity thicken around us, 
in the truths and promises of our Gob, we find our 
only refuge. In the sanctuary, when the oracles of 
God are delivered, doubt and unbelief, sorrow and 
despair, are driven away. Here divine beauty 
beams with mild effulgence on the soul, and the 
troubled spirit is charmed to rest. " One day in 
thy courts is better titan a thousand." " One tfting 
have I desired of the Lord, that will I seek after, 



{ 108 ) 

thfit I iwoy dwell in the Jwuse of tlie Lord, all the 
days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lard" 

When Jesus joins himself to his disconsolate dis- 
ciples, how soon is their sorrow turned into joy ! 
And whilst he * opens their understandings to un^ 
derstand the scriptures/ how do their hearts burn 
witbin them !' That which above all things makes 
the scriptures precious, and the study of them de- 
lightful, is, that there we can find Jesus Christ* 
We have no need to say, ' who shall ascend into 
heaven, that is, to bring Christ down from above; or 
who shall descend into the deep, that is, to bring up 
Christ again from the dead ?" For, " the word is 
nigh us, even in our mouth, and in our heart j that 
is, the word of faith which we preach/' " Christ 
and him crucified, 9 ' is the centre of the Christian's 
religion, the foundation of his faith and hope, and 
the perennial spring of all his pleasures and his 
joys. When, at any time, it pleases God to shine 
upon his word, whilst the believer reads its sacred 
contents, what a divine glory illuminates the holy 
page! What attractive beauty draws forth the 
.best affections of his heart ! What wonders do his 
opened eye* behold in the cross ! He seems to be 
translated into a new world, and is ready to ex- 
claim, " I have heard of thee by the hearing of the 
ear; but now mine eye seeth thee." " Old things 
are passed away, and behold, all things are become 
new." O ! could the pious reader of the scriptures 
constantly retain these spiritual views, and tfcese ho- 



( iw ) 

fy impressions, heaven would be begun. This wil- 
derness would ' bud and blossom as the rose/ and 
paradise be renewed on earth. But ' this is not our 
rest, it is polluted ;' that remainethfor the people of 
God ; even " an inheritance incorruptible , undefiled, 
and thatfadeth not away, reserved in the heavens for 
us, who are kept by the power of God through faith 
unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time." 

But whilst we are on our pilgrimage to this pro- 
mised land, the scriptures will be " a light to our 
feet and a lamp to our paths." They will answer 
the same purpose to us, which the pillar of cloud 
and of fire, did to the Israelites. They will guide 
us in the right way, through all our journey. Let 
us, then, be persuaded diligently ' to search the 
Scriptures.' 

I beg leave to conclude this discourse in the 
words of the pious Weller, the friend and disciple* 
of Lut/ier .•!••■ 

I admonish you again and again, that yon 
read the sacred scriptures in a far different man- 
* ner from that in which you read any other book : 
that you approach them with the highest rever- 
ence, and most intense application of your mind ; 
" not as the words of a man, nor an angel, but as 
" the words of the Divine Majesty, the least of 
u which should have more weight with us, than 
" the writings of the wisest and most learned men 
" in the world *." 

* Consilium De Studio Thcologix\ 









1 



CHARGE, 



TO 



THE PROFESSOR, 



AND 



f 



STUDENTS OF DIVINITY. 



BY 



PHILIP MILLEDOLER. D. D. 



14 



I 

1 



CHARGE, %c 

Reverend and dear Brother, 

The engagements you have formed this day, 
are peculiarly solemn and affecting. The charge 
devolving on the Pastor of a congregation, in enter- 
ing upon the duties of his office, is deeply interest- 
ing>, but not so interesting as yours. Tou are not 
called by a particular branch of our church to mi- 
nister in holy things, but by her highest ecclesiasti- 
cal judicatory, to superintend the education of her 
sons. Under the direction, we trust, of the great 
Head of the Church, you have been invited to train 
up for her service, bands of intelligent, intrepid, and 
faithful champions of the cross. The characters 
you are to form for active service, are the flower of 
our youth ; young men from whose lips, at some 
future, and not far distant period, multitudes of souls 
may receive instruction ; who may be destined to 
fill the chairs of teachers and professors in our 
schools, and on whose fidelity, under God, may de- 
pend the future peace and prosperity of the church, 
and the salvation of thousands, perhaps millions, yet 
unborn. N 

Suffer me, under these circumstances, to give a 
brief exhibition of the views of the general as- 
sembly in founding this institution, and to point out 
some duties incumbent on you, in the accomplish- 
ment of those views. The assembly, in founding 



( 108 ) 

this school, are desirous of securing and perpetr- 
ating to the church, a learned, orthodox, pious, 
and evangelical Ministry. 

We want a learned Ministry. 

Whatever mischief has been done to the world 
by philosophy, falsely so called, we are persuaded 
that true learning has never injured the church, and 
Beyer will. Such is the harmony subsisting be- 
tweeu the works and word of God, that dis- 
coveries in the former will never cease to promote 
our regard for the latter. It has been said, that ig- 
norance is the mother of devotion ; that aphorism 
we utterly and indignantly reject* To instruct others, 
and especially in divine things, men must first be in- 
structed themselves. On this principle God himself 
has acted from the beginning of the world to the 
present day. In former ages, he himself spake di- 
rectly, to the prophets. The messages they deliver- 
ed were formed under the immediate influence of 
his grace, and the inspiration of his Spirit. " For 
the prophecy came not in old time by the will of 
man ; but holy men of God spake as they were 

moved by the Holy Ghost*." 

■ 

At the entrance of our Saviour upon his Minis- 
try, he chose twelve disciples. These were prepared 
by himself for their work, and that too especially 

* 2 Pet. 1. 21. 



fc 



* 



C !«• ) 

id the first instance by a regular course of instruc- 
tion and discipline. It was after that course of in- 
struction, and not before, that they were sent out to 
evangelize the world. Of completing the designs of 
God toward our race, in their day, these servants of 
Christ had no expectation. Their number was 
small, their lives precarious, the opposition they 
met with, powerful and constant; and their influ- 
ence confined to regions which, however extensive 
in themselves, were yet small when compared to the 
whole world. They were therefore solicitous to 
provide for the future wants of the church, and 
took immediate steps for transmitting their power 
and authority to others. Hence that charge of 
Paul to Timothy* : " And the things that, thou 
hast heard of me among many witnesses, . the 
same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be 
able to teach others also." Thus early provision 
was made for the supply of the. church with an 
able and faithful ministry. Beside the instruc- 
tion they had received from their Lord, the . Apos- 
tles and their immediate successors were quali- 
fied in a miraculous manner for their work. — They 
were endowed with the gift of tongues. De- 
vils fled at their rebuke; diseases, the most inve- 
terate, were healed by a word or by a touch. They 
had also the power of discerning spirits fj a power 
which gave them no small advantage over ordina- 
ry teachers. All these gifts, from their extraordi- 

* 2 Tim. 2.2. f 1 Cor. 12. 10. 



j I 



( no ) 



juary nature, and the well known disposition of 
mankind, were calculated to excite curiosity, to 
attract attention, to draw men within the sphere of 
the Gospel, and to carry home, by divine grace, ir- 
resistible conviction to their understandings and 
hearts. They enjoyed another advantage ; they 
were under the influence of the Spirit of God, 
to a degree, of which now, alas ! owing to our most 
awful supineness, we can hardly form a conception. 
This influence of the Spirit gave dignity to their 
manners, intrepidity to their zeal, and a general 
character to their ministry, which commanded the 
admiration of both friends and foes. With such 
advantages, it is not to be wondered at, that they 
towered with eagles' flight above the philosophers of 
their day, and outstripped in their progress all the 
wisdom of the sages, and all the eloquence of the 
schools. But the gift of tongues, with other mira- 
culous endowments of the Holy Spirit, began gra- 
dually to disappear with the extension of the Gos- 
pel. This circumstance had a considerable in- 
fluence in changing the face of the church, and 
especially in regard to the education of her minis- 
ters. That the scriptures might be read in the lan- 
guages in which they were originally penned, or 
translated into the tongues of foreign nations ; that 
young Gentile converts might become mighty in the 
scriptures ; and that the sons of the church might 
be qualified to contend for the faith once delivered 
to the saints, against learned and subtle adversaries 



< 111 ) 

without, a$ well as against sectaries in her 
own bosom, it was soon perceived that a learn- 
ed, as well as pious, ministry, was indispensa- 
bly necessary. The most distinguished of the pri- 
mitive fathers were advocates for a learned ministry. 
They well knew that learning without piety might 
be abused to the worst of purposes ; but they were 
unwilling to allow that the abuse of what is good 
in itself, can ever detract from its intrinsic value. 
In this view of the subject, they were followed by 
the Reformers ; and it is a principle which has been 
acted upon, and contended for, from that day 
to the present, by the best and purest churches in 
Christendom. In the careful instruction, then, of 
our Youth, dear Sir, for the work of the Gospel 
Ministry, you will neither stand upon new or un- 
tenable ground. And, assured as you may be, that 
you are doing the will of Christ, you may safely em- 
ploy in it all the stores of your learning; all the re- 
sources of your genius, and all the powers of your 
soul. But whilst there can be no doubt, either of the 
lawfulness or expediency of such a work, it is not 
to be concealed, that it is a task of great labour and 
difficulty. To say nothing of that diversity of dis- 
position, taste, and intellect, in students themselves, 
which renders the art of teaching, as well as govern- 
ment, so exceedingly intricate j waving also at pre- 
sent all observations on methods of instruction, I will 
venture to say, that the work itself is one of the 
most arduous in the world. The scriptures are a 
mine of inexhaustible wealth, but to be enriched 



( "2 ) 

with their treasures will require close and eomtafil 
application* To exhibit divine truth in a lucid 
and systematic manner ; to show the unity of Scrip- 
ture in the connexion and dependence of its 
parts; to make of our young men sound Bi- 
blical critics, and able casuists; to furnish them 
with gospel armour of proof, offensive and defen- 
sive ; to give them an extensive acquaintance with 
Church history and government; but especially so 
to indoctrinate, and, if 1 may use the expression, 
leaven them with heavenly truth, that they may 
ever after hold, and defend it for themselves, as 
Well as communicate it to others; is a work indeed 
of no small magnitude. In this work you will 
soon, we hope, be aided by faithful colleagues ; but 
a large and important part of it will still rest, under 
God, upon yourself. To cultivate such a field as this, 
dear sir, will be sufficient to call forth the exertions 
of the most active and enterprising mind ; it will 
therefore behoove you, notwithstanding all your 
present acquirements, not only to cherish the attain- 
ments you have already made, but also further to 
enrich your mind with the spoils of science, and to 
extend your inquiries into almost every department 

of literature, sacred and profane. 

« 

Another charge devolving upon you with pecu- 
liar weight, dear Brother, is the faithful maintenance 
of that system of doctrines handed down to us by 
our fathers, and for which in numerous instances 
they have sacrificed " their fortunes, their liberties, 



i 






1 



< 113 ) 

.and their lives." Strongly attached to the doctrines 
of the reformation contained in her standards, jea- 
lous of innovation, and anxious to transmit the 
truth as it is in Jesus inviolate to posterity, the 
Presbyterian church will expect, and permit me to 
add, Sir, after the signal mark of her confidence 
reposed in you, will have a right to expect, that her 
doctrines,, and especially her distinguishing doc- 
trines, will be taught in this school without adding 
to, or taking aught from them in any wise, or under 
any pretext whatsoever. It is also expected that 
these doctrines will be explained in terms used 
by her best writers from almost time immemo- 
rial, and which from long use have become fa- 
miliar te, and are best understood by, her mem-' 
bers* By observing this plan, there will be an agree- 
ment of theological terms used in the instruction 
of our youth, with those used in our standard books, 
as well as an agreement of terms used by our fu- 
ture licentiates and ministers, with those to which 
our congregations are accustomed. An object this, 
of no small importance to the future harmony of our 
churches. The Confession of Faith of the Presby- 
terian Church, and form of government connected 
with it, will be an important book in this seminary. 
Containing a form of sound words drawn from the 
lively oracles of God, and tested by experience, 
it has long served, and will hereafter serve, as a 
bond of union to the churches. As every minis- 
ter in our connexion is required to subscribe this 
Confession, they should be well acquainted with its 

15 



v \ m • ' 1 1 ' v » : i 



( 114 ) 

contents. When adopted, it cannot be n 
without renouncing* our communion ; nor invaded, 
without a species of sacrilege. If important doctri- 
nal errors are ever introduced into our churches, 
they will be introduced by a gradual departure 
from our standards. These should be guarded, 
therefore, with inviolable care. Is any man dissa* 
tisfied with them, he is not bound to receive them ; 
and if he does receive them, he is by that very act 
sacredly bound to cherish and maintain them* To 
surrender truths deemed of minor importance is on* 
ly to prepare the way for other demands, and great- 
er sacrifices; and if first attempts are not repelled, 
they will soon be followed by others, till all is gone 
that is worth contending for. To give our young 
men an early acquaintance with these standards, 
is therefore an object of primary importance; 
and should they be required, during their theo- 
logical course, to commit to memory the great* 
er part, if not the whole, of our confession and book 
of discipline, it would be attended with incalcula- 
ble advantage. It would not only give them a de- 
cided superiority over others in ecclesiastical coun- 
cils, but would also tend to guard them against er- 
ror, as well as to secure their attachment to the truth. 
Peculiarly set for the defence of the Gospel, it will 
be expected of you, dear brother, that you will standi 
as a bulwark for truth against the encroachments 
of error, In this respect also, the assembly have 
deposited in your hands a most sacred trust; and one* 
we are persuaded, that will never be abused* With 



( 11* ) 

pkatare we anticipate the period wteti the yOtith 
of our seminary trill not only exhibit sound princi- 
ples themselves, but will also be disposed, and p*e* 
pared to hand thorn down inviolate to others* 

- And as it is desirable that we should have a 
learned and orthodox, so we also need a pious and 
evangelical, ministry. Whatever may be the talpnts 
of ministers^ they are like, without personal piety, 
to be of no lasting advantage to the church ; nay, 
such characters have often inflicted upon it deep, 
and almost incurable wounds. That they are ut- 
terly unfit for the sacred office, is manifest How 
shall they feed the flock of Christ purchased with 
his blood, who have no interest in that purchase ? 
How shall they sympathize in the sufferings of 
God's people, who have no spiritual feeling? 
Or how shall they speak a word in season to 
weary and tempted souls, who themselves never 
felt, and therefore never mourned, under the 
awful pressure of their sins ? Their godly hear- 
ers dan be satisfied with them no longer than they 
shall have address enough to Conceal their real 
characters, and they not unfrequently become 
the scorn even of the careless and impenitent. 
We hope the time is far distant, when our 
churches will be satisfied with mere exhibitions 
of learning, or eloquence, or with the substitution 
of dry moral lectures for the preaching of the cross. 
The apostle Paul was determined to know nothing 
among hishearersbut Jesus Chris^atid him crucified* 



( "« ) 

— He was convinced that nothing under heaven 
could exhibit the divine character in a clearer 
light, and that nothing had equal influence on the 
human mind, to control, reform, and change it into 
the image of God. He had fairly made the expe- 
riment, and hath taught us, both by precept and ex- 
ample, that the true ministry of reconciliation must 
be pious and evangelical. In preparing such a 
Ministry for the church* it is desirable that such, 
and such only, should be sent forward to the school 
as are hopefully pious. What remains to the pro- 
fessors of the institution, is continually to insist upon 
the necessity of it, to cultivate it where it exists, 
by precept and example ; to honour it with marked 
respect, and in every instance in which they shall 
be satisfied of the want of it in any pupil, to take 
effectual steps to prevent his entrance upon an office, 
for which in such case he is so evidently disquali- 
fied. 

Thus, reverend and dear brother, I have endea- 
voured to mark out your glorious work, and have 
ventured a few thoughts on the best means of its 
accomplishment. We want a learned, orthodox, 
pious, and evangelical ministry. To such, and 
such only, can we confidently and comfortably com- 
mit the affairs of the church; and to leave another 
ministry in it, if we ourselves are faithful, would plant 
thorns in our dying pillows. As no greater curse 
can fall upon a people than to commit its spiritual 
interests into the hands of weak and unskilful, but 



( in > 

v especially of unprincipled, men ; so, on the other 
hand, we are persuaded that an able and faithful mi- 

r nistry, is one of the most distinguished blessings to 

* the world. Its influence in the church must be ob- 
vious to all ; and its benign influence on our schools, 
as well as on the general good order and happiness 
of society, will be denied only by the thoughtless, 
or the profligate. This seminary then, even in its 
infant state, is an object of public interest; an ob~ 

► ject not only calculated to call forth the good wish- 
es of our own church, but of the church at large, 
aup even of the nation. Though its origin be 

i small, the voice of its sons, we trust, will one day 

I • be heard to advantage from one extreme of these 
United States to the other ; nay, the time may not 
be far distant, when they will vie with their trans- 
atlantic brethren, in carrying the lamp of eternal 
truth, and planting the standard of the cross, on 
the remotest shores of heathen lands. The bless- 
ings that flow from such a ministry, are not bless- 
ings of a day, of a year, or even of an age. — 
These, men will in due tiipe transmit their know- 
ledge and authority to others, and these again to 
their successors, to the final conflagration of the 
globe. In this view of the subject, Reverend Sir, 
you will feel a weight of responsibility upon you 
sufficient to bow the shoulders of an angel. The 
infant state of the institution will add to that weight. 
The General Assembly haye stamped it with grand 
and impressive features, but they have only drawn 
the great outlines of its character. Much yet remains 



< 



( 118 ) 

to be done. The perfection of their plan will be the 
result of time and experience, and will greatly de- 
pend on the wisdom and diligence of their professors* 
In all this work, dear brother, you will have the eyes 
of God, of angels, and of men, upon you; but you 
enter upon it with great encouragement You 
may promise yourself the good wishes and pray- 
ers of the whole church of God. You may also 
promise yourself the cordial co-operation of your 
brethren in the Lord. In their personal friendship, 
as well as interest in the work, you will find pledg- 
es of future consolation and support. But . above 
all, you may promise yourself, if faithful, the coin 
stant blessing of the great Head of the church i 
there lies your strength, your wisdom, your every 
qualification for the work. The promise, " Lo, I 
am with you always," has never been forgotten by 
Jbim, and never will. I have only to add a wish 
that when the book shall be opened that records 
the transactions of this day, that you may have 
cause to rejoice in them for ever. 

Permit me, also, young gentlemen, on this solemn 
occasion, to address myself to you. You will 
have the honour of being the first whose names are 
enrolled in the register of this Seminary. They 
will stand, we hope, at the head of a host of worthies, 
whose future labours shall bless the church of God, 
and do honour to their country. As you are 
first in order of time, so we pray, that you may 
be numbered with the first, in devotion to God, and 



( 119 ) 

usefulness to mankind. The studies in winch you 
will be engaged, are not only delightful, to the 

^ pious mind, but are also calculated to enlarge 

your souls; to ennoble and transform them into 
the very image of God. The privilege you will 
enjoy, of consecrating your time to the study of the 
scriptures, and your persons to the service of Christ, 
is too great for expression. You are now, young 
gentlemen, to lay the foundation of your future cha- 

. racter and usefulness in life ; and, in some measure 

1 at least, as connected with it, of your future and 

eternal felicity. Permit me then to urge, with all 
possible earnestness, a diligent improvement of time 
and opportunities afforded you in the good provi- 
dence of God. Your stay in this seminary may 
seem long in prospect, but it is really short ; short 
in itself, and especially so, when compared with 

*<* the work you have to do. Observe the plan of edu- 

cation marked out by the Assembly, and you will 
see at once, that the most diligent application will 
barely suffice, to give you, not to say a perfect, but 
even a competent knowledge of the subjects it em* 
braces* 

If any suppose that occasional application, or su- 
perficial reading, will constitute an eminent divine, 
they are exceedingly mistaken* In searching after, 
illustrating, or defending truth, die whole^circle of 
the sciences may be pressed into the service of 
Christ. The study of the scriptures, especially in 
their original languages, is a work of time, as well 



( 120 ) 

as of deep research. To obtain an accurate know* 
ledge of scripture types, prophecies, and doctrines ; 
to be acquainted with the sophistry of enemies, and 
qualified to expose it; to be well informed in church 
history and government; and to acquire facility in 
collecting, judgment in arranging, and gracefulness 
in the delivery of your thoughts, will all require time 
and labour. 

But whilst I thus urge preparation for the altar 
in the acquirement of useful knowledge, let me 
also insist, particularly insist, on the cultivation of 
personal piety. As you are now to lay the foun- 
dation of solid learning, and literary eminence, so 
also of good character. Many eyes will be upon 
you, and more expected than from other young men 
of the same age, engaged in other pursuits. To the 
youth of this venerable seat of learning and the arts, 
you are especially called, to set examples of piety 
worthy of imitation. Not to speak of actions gross- 
ly derogatory to your Christian character, and the 
stain of which might follow you to your graves ; re- 
member, that you have in great measure passed 
that period of life, in which folly is extenuated by 
juvenile indiscretion. A short time will place you, 
God willing, upon the theatre of the world, under 
the august character of Ambassadors of Christ. 
Bear this in constant remembrance ; and if you ever 
hope to fill that station with dignity to yourselves, 
usefulness to others, and glory to God, learn now to 
live by faith in the Son of God ; govern your pas- 



