THE  PLAN 


OF  A 


THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY 

ADOPTED  BY 

THE  GENERAL  ASSEMBLY 

OF 

THE  PRESBYTERIAN  CHURCH 

IN  T3IE 

UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA, 

IN  THEIR  SESSIONS  OF  HAY  LAST, 

A.  D.  1811  i 

TOGETHER  WITH  THE  MEASURES  TAKEN  BY  THEM 
TO  CARRY  THE  PLAN  INTO  EFFECT. 


PHILADELPHIA 

PRINTED  BY  JANE  AITKEN,  NO.  71,  NORTH  THIRD  STREET. 


1811 


INTRODUCTION, 


THE  report  of  the  Committee,  appointed  by  the  last 
Assembly,  to  draw  up  a  Plan  for  a  Theological  Semina¬ 
ry,  was  read;  and,  after  being  corrected  and  amended, 
was  adopted,  except  the  7th  and  9th  articles,  which  were 
referred  to  the  consideration  of  the  next  Assembly.  It 
is  as  follows,  viz. 

Inasmuch  as  the  obtaining  of  salvation  through  Jesus 
Christ  our  Lord,  to  the  glory  of  the  eternal  God,  is  the 
chief  object  which  claims  the  attention  of  man  ;  and  con¬ 
sidering,  that  in  the  attainment  of  this  object  the  dispen¬ 
sation  of  the  Gospel  is  principally  instrumental ;  it  is  ma¬ 
nifestly  of  the  highest  importance,  that  the  best  means 
be  used  to  ensure  the  faithful  preaching  of  the  Gospel, 
and  the  pure  administration  of  all  its  ordinances.  With 
this  view,  therefore,  institutions  for  the  education  of  youth 
intended  for  the  holy  ministry,  have  been  established  in 
all  Christian  countries,  and  have  been  found,  by  long  ex¬ 
perience,  most  eminently  conducive  to  the  prosperity  of 
the  Church*  Hence  the  founders  of  the  Presbyterian 
Church  in  the  United  States  of  America,  did*  from  its 
very  origin,  exert  themselves  with  peculiar  zeal  to  estsU 


4 


blish  and  endow  colleges,  academies,  and  schools,  for  the 
education  of  youth  for  the  Gospel  ministry.  So  rapid, 
however,  has  been  the  extension  of  this  Church,  and  so 
disproportionate,  of  late,  has  been  the  number  of  minis¬ 
ters  educated,  to  the  call  which  has  been  made  for  mi¬ 
nisterial  service,  that  some  additional  and  vigorous  ef¬ 
forts  to  increase  the  supply  are  loudly  and  affectingly  de¬ 
manded.  Circumstances  also  do  imperiously  dictate,  not 
only  that  the  labourers  in  the  vineyard  of  the  Lord  should 
be  multiplied,  but  that  they  should  be  more  thoroughly 
furnished  than  they  have  ordinarily  been  for  the  arduous 
work  to  which  they  must  be  called.  Influenced  by  the 
views  and  considerations  now  recited,  the  General  As¬ 
sembly,  after  mature  deliberation,  have  resolved,  in  re¬ 
liance  on  the  patronage  and  blessing  of  the  Great  Head 
of  the  Church,  to  establish  anew  Institution,  consecrated 
solely  to  the  education  of  men  for  the  Gospel  ministry, 
and  to  be  denominated,  The  Theological  Seminary  of  the 
Presbyterian  Church  in  the  United  States  of  America. 
And  to  the  intent  that  the  true  design  of  the  founders  of 
this  institution  may  be  known  to  the  public,  both  now 
and  in  time  to  come,  and  especially  that  this  design  may, 
at  all  times,  be  distinctly  viewed,  and  sacredly  regarded, 
both  by  the  teachers  and  the  pupils  of  the  Seminary,  it 
is  judged  proper  to  make  a  summary  and  explicit  state¬ 
ment  of  it. 

It  is  to  form  men  for  the  Gospel  ministry,  who  shall 
truly  believe,  and  cordially  love,  and  therefore  endea¬ 
vour  to  propagate  and  defend,  in  its  genuineness,  simpli¬ 
city,  and  fulness,  that  system  of  religious  belief  and  prac¬ 
tice  which  is  set  forth  in  the  Confession  of  Faith,  Cate¬ 
chisms,  and  Plan  of  Government  and  Discipline  of  the 
Presbyterian  Church  ;  and  thus  to  perpetuate  and  extend 
the  influence  of  true  evangelical  piety,  and  Gospel  order. 

It  is  to  provide  for  the  Church  an  adequate  supply  and 
succession  of  able  and  faithful  ministers  of  the  New 
Testament ;  workmen  that  need  not  to  be  ashamed,  being 
qualified  rightly  to  divide  the  word  of  truth. 

It  is  to  unite,  in  those  who  shall  sustain  the  ministe¬ 
rial  office,  religion  and  literature  ;  that  piety  of  the  heart 
which  is  the  fruit  only  of  the  renewing  and  sanctifying 
grace  of  God,  with  solid  learning ;  believing  that  religion 


5 

■without  learning,  or  learning  without  religion,  in  the 
ministers  of  the  Gospel,  must  ultimately  prove  injurious 
to  the  Church. 

It  is  to  afford  more  advantages  than  have  hitherto  been 
usually  possessed  by  the  ministers  of  religion  in  our 
country,  to  cultivate  both  piety  and  literatuie  in  their 
preparatory  course  ;  piety,  by  placing  it  in  circumstan¬ 
ces  favourable  to  its  growth,  and  by  cherishing  and  regu¬ 
lating  its  ardour ;  literature,  by  affording  favourable  op¬ 
portunities  for  its  attainment,  and  by  making  its  posses¬ 
sion  indispensable. 

It  is  to  provide  for  the  Church,  men  who  shall  be 
able  to  defend  her  faith  against  infidels,  and  her  doc¬ 
trines  against  heretics. 

It  is  to  furnish  our  congregations  with  enlightened, 
humble,  zealous,  laborious  pastors,  who  shall  truly  watch 
for  the  good  of  souls,  and  consider  it  as  their  highest 
honour  and  happiness  to  win  them  to  the  Saviour,  and 
to  build  up  their  several  charges  in  holiness  and  peace. 

It  is  to  promote  harmony  and  unity  of  sentiment 
among  the  ministers  of  our  Church,  by  educating  a 
large  body  of  them  under  the  same  teachers,  and  in  the 
same  course  of  study. 

It  is  to  lay  the  foundation  of  early  and  lasting  friend¬ 
ships,  productive  of  confidence  and  mutual  assistance  in 
after  life  among  the  ministers  of  religion  ;  which  expe¬ 
rience  shows  to  be  conducive  not  only  to  personal  happi¬ 
ness,  but  to  the  perfecting  of  inquiries,  researches,  and 
publications  advantageous  to  religion. 

It  is  to  preserve  the  unity  of  our  Church,  by  educa¬ 
ting  her  ministers  in  an  enlightened  attachment,  not  only 
to  the  same  doctrines,  but  to  the  same  plan  of  govern¬ 
ment. 

It  is  to  bring  to  the  service  of  the  Church  genius  and 
talent,  when  united  with  piety,  however  poor  or  obscure 
may  be  their  possessor,  by  furnishing,  as  far  as  possible, 
the  means  of  education  and  support,  without  expense  to 
the  student. 

It  is  to  found  a  nursery  for  missionaries  to  the  heathen, 
and  to  such  as  are  destitute  of  the  stated  preaching  of 
the  gospel;  in  which  youth  may  receive  that  appropriate 
training  which  may  lay  a  foundation  for  their  ultimately 
becoming  eminently  qualified  for  missionary  work. 


6 


It  is,  finally,  to  endeavour  to  raise  up  a  succession  of 
men,  at  once  qualified  for  and  thoroughly  devoted  to  the 
work  of  the  Gospel  ministry ;  who,  with  various  endow¬ 
ments,  suiting  them  to  different  stations  in  the  Church  of 
Christ,  may  all  possess  a  portion  of  the  spirit  of  the  pri¬ 
mitive  propagators  of  the  Gospel;  prepared  to  make  eve¬ 
ry  sacrifice,  to  endure  every  hardship,  and  to  render 
every  service  which  the  promotion  of  pure  and  undefiled 
religion  may  require. 


i 


PLAN 


OF  A 

THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY,  &c. 


ARTICLE  I. 

Of  the  General  Assembly . 

Section  1.  As  this  Institution  derives  its  origin  from 
the  General  Assembly,  so  that  body  is  to  be  considered 
at  all  times  as  its  patron,  and  the  fountain  of  its  powers. 
The  Assembly  shall,  accordingly,  ultimately  sanction  all 
its  laws,  direct  its  instructions,  and  appoint  its  principal 
officers. 

Sect.  2.  The  General  Assembly  shall  choose  a  Board 
of  Directors,  consisting  of  fourteen  ministers,  and  six 
ruling  elders,  by  whom  the  Seminary  shall  be  inspected 
and  conducted.  This  board  of  directors  shall  be  chosen 
triennially,  except  that  the  General  Assembly  may,  an¬ 
nually,  when  necessary,  fill  up  the  vacancies  occasioned 
in  the  board  by  death,  resignation,  or  incapacity  to  serve. 

Sect.  3.  All  professors  of  the  Seminary  shall  be  ap¬ 
pointed  by  the  Assembly.  But  in  cases  of  necessity,  the 
board  of  directors  may  employ  a  suitable  person  to  per¬ 
form  the  duties  of  a  professor,  till  a  meeting  of  the  As¬ 
sembly  shall  take  place. 

Sect.  4.  The  General  Assembly  shall,  at  all  times,  have 
the  power  of  adding  to  the  Constitutional  Articles  of  the 
Seminary,  and  of  abrogating,  altering,  or  amending  them; 
but,  in  the  exercise  of  this  power,  the  contemplated  ad¬ 
ditions,  abrogations,  alterations,  or  amendments,  shall, 
m  every  case,  be  proposed  at  one  Assembly,  and  not 
adopted  till  the  Assembly  of  the  subsequent  year,  except 
by  a  unanimous  vote. 


8 


ARTICLE  II. 

Of  the  Board  of  Directors. 

Section  1.  The  board  of  directors  shall  meet  statedly, 
twice  in  each  year  ;  once  in  the  spring,  and  once  in  the 
fall,  and  oftener  on  their  own  adjournments,  if  they  shall 
judge  it  expedient.  A  majority  of  the  board  shall  be  a 
quorum  ;  provided  always,  that  of  this  majority  six,  at 
least,  be  ministers  of  the  Gospel. 

Sect.  2.  The  board  shall  choose,  out  of  their  own  num¬ 
ber,  a  president  and  secretary.  In  the  absence  of  the 
president,  the  senior  member  present  shall  preside. 

Sect.  3.  The  president  of  the  board,  or  in  the  event  of 
his  death,  absence,  or  inability  to  act,  the  senior  member 
for  the  time  being  shall,  at  the  request  of  any  three  mem¬ 
bers  expressed  to  him  in  writing,  call  a  special  meeting 
of  the  board  of  directors  by  a  circular  letter  addressed  to 
each  ;  in  which  letter  notice  shall  be  given,  not  only  of  the 
place  and  time  of  meeting,  but  of  the  business  intended 
to  be  transacted  at  the  meeting  notified ;  and  this  letter 
shall  be  sent  at  least  twenty  days  before  the  time  of  said 
meeting. 

Sect.  4.  The  secretary  of  the  board  shall  keep  accurate 
records  of  all  the  proceedings  of  the  directors  ;  and  it 
shall  be  his  duty  to  lay  these  records,  or  a  faithful  trans¬ 
cript  of  the  same,  before  the  General  Assembly,  annually, 
for  the  unrestrained  inspection  of  all  the  members. 

Sect.  5.  Every  meeting  of  the  board  of  directors  shall 
be  opened  and  closed  with  prayer. 

Sect.  6.  The  board  of  directors  may  make  rules  and 
regulations  for  the  performance  of  the  duties  assigned 
them,  or  for  the  preservation  of  order,  not  inconsistent 
with  the  prescriptions  of  this  plan,  or  the  orders  of  the 
General  Assembly. 

Sect.  7.  At  the  commencement  of  each  stated  spring 
meeting,  the  whole  plan  of  the  Seminary  shall  be  dis¬ 
tinctly  read  before  the  board  of  directors. 

Sect.  8.  The  board  shall  direct  the  professors  of  the 
Seminary,  in  regard  to  the  subjects  and  topics  on  which 
they  are  severally  to  give  instructions  to  the  pupils,  so 


■9 


far  as  the  same  shall  not  be  prescribed  by  this  plan,  or  by 
the  orders  of  the  General  Assembly. 

Sect.  9.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  board  of  directors 
to  inaugurate  the  professors  of  the  Seminary,  and  to  di¬ 
rect  what  forms  shall  be  used,  and  what  services  perform¬ 
ed,  on  such  occasions. 

Sect.  10.  Every  director,  previously  to  his  taking  his 
seat  as  a  member  of  the  board,  shall  solemnly  subscribe 
the  following  formula,  viz. — “  Approving  the  plan  of 
the  Theological  Seminary  of  the  Presbyterian  Church  in 
the  United  States  of  America,  I  solemnly  declare  and 
promise,  in  the  presence  of  God,  and  of  this  board,  that 
I  will  faithfully  endeavour  to  carry  into  effect  all  the  arti¬ 
cles  and  provisions  of  said  plan,  and  to  promote  the  great 
design  of  the  Seminary.” 

Sect.  11.  The  board  of  directors  shall  inspect  the  fidel¬ 
ity  of  the  professors,  especially  in  regard  to  the  doctrines 
actually  taught ;  and  if,  after  due  inquiry  and  examina¬ 
tion,  they  shall  judge  that  any  professor  is  either  unsound 
in  the  faith,  opposed  to  the  fundamental  principles  of 
Presbyterian  Church  Government,  immoral  in  his  con¬ 
duct,  unfaithful  to  his  trust,  or  incompetent  to  the  dis¬ 
charge  of  his  duties,  they  shall  faithfully  report  him  as 
such  to  the  General  Assembly.  Or  if  the  longer  contin¬ 
uance  of  a  professor  be  judged  highly  dangerous,  the  di¬ 
rectors  may  immediately  suspend  him,  and  appoint  ano¬ 
ther  in  his  place,  till  the  whole  business  can  be  reported, 
and  submitted  to  the  Assembly. 

Sect.  12.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  board  of  direct¬ 
ors  to  watch  over  the  conduct  of  the  students  ;  to  redress 
grievances  ;  to  examine  into  the  whole  course  of  instruc¬ 
tion  and  study  in  the  Seminary ;  and  generally  to  super¬ 
intend  and  endeavour  to  promote  all  its  interests. 

Sect.  13.  The  board  of  directors  shall  make,  in  writing, 
a  detailed  and  faithful  report  of  the  state  of  the  Semina- 
nary,  to  every  General  Assembly  ;  and  they  may,  at  the 
same  time,  recommend  such  measures  for  the  advantage 
of  the  Seminary,  as  to  them  may  appear  proper. 

Sect.  14.  At  every  stated  meeting  of  the  board  of  di¬ 
rectors,  unless  particular  circumstances  render  it  inexpe¬ 
dient,  there  shall  be  at  least  one  sermon  delivered  in  the 
presence  of  the  board,  the  professors,  and  students,  by  a 
director  or  directors  previously  appointed  for  the  purpose, 

B 


10 


ARTICLE  IIL 

Of  the  Professors. 

Section  1.  The  number  of  the  professors  in  the  Semi¬ 
nary  shall  be  increased  or  diminished,  as  the  Assembly 
may,  from  time  to  time,  direct.  But  when  the  Seminary 
shall  be  completely  organized,  there  shall  not  be  less  than 
three  professors  :  one  of  Didactic  and  Polemic  Divinity; 
one  of  Oriental  and  Biblical  Literature  ;  and  one  of  Ec¬ 
clesiastical  History  and  Church  Government. 

Sect.  2.  No  person  shall  be  inducted  into  the  office  of 
professor  of  divinity,  but  an  ordained  minister  of  the 
Gospel. 

Sect.  3.  Every  person  elected  to  a  professorship,  in 
this  Seminary,  shall,  on  being  inaugurated,  solemnly  sub¬ 
scribe  the  Confession  of  Faith,  Catechisms,  and  Form  of 
Government  of  the  Presbyterian  Church,  agreeably  to 
the  following  formula,  viz.— “  In  the  presence  of  God 
and  of  the  directors  of  this  Seminary,  I  do  solemnly,  and 
ex  ammo  adopt,  receive,  and  subscribe  the  Confession  of 
Faith  and  Catechisms  of  the  Presbyterian  Church  in  the 
United  States  of  America,  as  the  confession  oi  my  faith  ; 
or,  as  a  summary  and  just  exhibition  of  that  system  of 
doctrine  and  religious  belief  which  is  contained  in  holy 
Scripture,  and  therein  revealed  by  God  to  man  for  his 
salvation:  and  I  do  solemnly  ex  animo  profess  to  receive 
the  Form  of  Government  of  said  Church,  as  agreeable  to 
the  inspired  oracles.  And  I  do  solemnly  promise  and  en¬ 
gage,  not  to  inculcate,  teach,  or  insinuate  any  thing  which 
shall  appear  to  me  to  contradict  or  contravene,  either  di¬ 
rectly  or  impliedly,  any  thing  taught  in  the  said  Confes¬ 
sion  of  Faith  or  Catechisms;  nor  to  oppose  any  of  the 
fundamental  principles  of  Presbyterian  church  govern¬ 
ment,  while  I  shall  continue  a  professor  in  this  Semi¬ 
nary.” 

Sect.  4.  The  salaries  of  the  professors  shall  be  re¬ 
commended  by  the  directors;  but  they  shall  be  fixed 
only  by  a  vote  of  the  General  Assembly. 


11 


Sect.  5.  The  professors  may  accompany  their  lectures 
and  recitations  with  prayer,  as  frequently  as  they  may 
judge  proper,  in  addition  to  those  daily  seasons  of  pray¬ 
er  in  which  all  the  students  will  unite. 

Sect.  6.  Each  professor  shall  lay  before  the  board  of 
directors,  as  soon  as  practicable  after  his  appointment,  a 
detailed  exhibition  of  the  system  and  method  which  he 
proposes  to  pursue,  and  the  subjects  which  he  proposes 
to  discuss,  in  conducting  the  studies  of  the  youth  that 
shall  come  under  his  care  :  and  in  this  system  he  shall 
make  such  alterations  or  additions  as  the  board  shall  di¬ 
rect  ;  so  that,  eventually,  the  whole  course  through 
which  the  pupils  shall  be  carried,  shall  be  no  other  than 
that  which  the  board  of  directors  shall  have  approved 
and  sanctioned,  conformably  to  Sect.  8.  Art.  II.  And  as 
often  as  any  professor  shall  think  that  variations  and  ad¬ 
ditions  of  importance  may  be  advantageously  introduced 
into  his  course  of  teaching,  he  shall  submit  the  same  to 
the  board  of  directors,  for  their  approbation  or  rejection. 

Sect.  7.  Every  professor  shall,  if  practicable,  have  at 
least  one  lecture  or  recitation  every  day,  on  which  the 
pupils,  in  his  branch  of  instruction  shall  be  bound  to  at¬ 
tend  ;  and  on  which  the  other  pupils  of  the  Seminary 
shall  attend  as  often,  and  in  such  manner,  as  may  be  di¬ 
rected  by  the  majority  of  the  board  of  directors. 

Sect.  8.  Any  professor  intending  to  resign  his  office, 
shall  give  six  months  notice  of  such  intention  to  the 
board  of  directors. 

Sect.  9.  The  professors  of  the  Institution  shall  be  con¬ 
sidered  as  a  faculty.  They  shall  meet  at  such  seasons  as 
they  may  judge  proper.  In  every  meeting  the  professor 
of  didactic  and  polemic  divinity  shall  preside,  if  he  be 
present.  If  he  be  absent,  a  president  shall  be  chosen  pro 
tempore.  The  faculty  shall  choose  a  clerk,  and  keep  ac¬ 
curate  records  of  all  their  proceedings;  which  records 
shall  be  laid  before  the  directors  at  every  meeting  of  the 
board.  The  president  of  the  faculty  shall  call  a  meeting 
whenever  he  shall  judge  it  expedient,  and  whenever  he 
shall  be  requested  to  do  so  by  any  other  member.  Bv 
the  faculty,  regularly  convened,  shall  be  determined  the 
hours  and  seasons  at  which  the  classes  shall  attend  the 
professors  severally,  so  as  to  prevent  interference  and 
confusion,  and  to  afford  to  the  pupils  the  best  opportu¬ 
nities  of  improvement.  The  faculty  shall  attend  to, 


12 


and  decide  on  all  cases  of  discipline,  and  all  questions 
ol  order,  as  they  shall  arise.  They  shall  agree  on  the 
rules  of  order,  decorum,  and  duty,  (not  inconsistent  with 
any  provision  in  the  plan  of  the  Seminary,  nor  with  any 
order  of  the  board  of  directors,)  to  which  the  students 
shall  be  subjected  ;  and  these  thev  shall  reduce  to  writing, 
and  cause  to  be  publicly  and  frequently  read.  They 
shall  determine  the  hours  at  which  the  whole  of  the  pu¬ 
pils  shall,  morning  and  evening,  attend  for  social  wor¬ 
ship,  and  the  manner  in  which,  and  the  person  or  per¬ 
sons,  of  their  own  number,  by  whom,  the  exercises  of 
devotion  shall  be  conducted. 

Sect.  10.  The  faculty  shall  be  empowered  to  dismiss 
from  the  Seminary  any  student  who  shall  prove  unsound 
in  his  religious  sentiments ;  immoral  or  disorderly  in  his 
conduct ;  or  who  may  be,  in  their  opinion,  on  any  ac¬ 
count  whatsoever,  a  dangerous,  or  unprofitable  member 
of  the  Institution. 

Sect.  11.  Each  member  of  the  faculty  shall  have  an 
equal  vote. 

Sect.  12.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  professors,  under 
the  direction  of  the  board  of  directors,  to  supply  the  pu¬ 
pils  of  the  Institution  with  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel, 
and  the  administration  of  the  Sacraments  of  the  Chris¬ 
tian  Church  ;  if  this  supply  shall  not,  in  the  judgment  of 
the  directors,  be  satisfactorily  furnished  by  a  Church  or 
Churches  in  the  place  where  the  Institution  shall  be  esta¬ 
blished. 


ARTICLE  IV. 

Of  Study  and  Attainments . 

As  the  particular  course  of  study  pursued  in  any  In¬ 
stitution  will,  and  perhaps  ought  to  be  modified  in  a  con¬ 
siderable  degree,  by  the  views  and  habits  of  the  teachers  ; 
and  ought,  moreover,  to  be  varied,  altered,  or  extended, 
as  experience  may  suggest  improvements  ;  it  is  judged 
proper  to  specify,  not  so  precisely  the  course  of  study, 
as  the  attainments  which  must  be  made.  Therefore, 


13 


Sect.  1.  Every  student,  at  the  close  of  his  course,  must 
have  made  the  following  attainments,  viz.  He  must  be 
well  skilled  in  the  original  languages  of  the  Holy  Scrip¬ 
tures.  He  must  be  able  to  explain  the  principal  difficulties 
which  arise  in  the  perusal  of  the  Scriptures,  either  from 
erroneous  translations,  apparent  inconsistencies,  real  ob¬ 
scurities,  or  objections  arising  from  history,  reason,  or 
argument.  He  must  be  versed  in  Jewish  and  Christian 
antiquities,  which  serve  to  explain  and  illustrate  Scripture. 
He  must  have  an  acquaintance  with  ancient  geography, 
and  with  oriental  customs,  which  throw  light  on  the 
sacred  records. — Thus  he  will  have  laid  the  foundation 
for  becoming  a  sound  biblical  critic. 

He  must  have  read  and  digested  the  principal  argu¬ 
ments  and  writings  relative  to  what  has  been  called  the 
deistical  controversy — Thus  will  he  be  qualified  to  be¬ 
come  a  defender  of  the  Christian  faith. 

He  must  be  able  to  support  the  doctrines  of  the  Con¬ 
fession  ot  Faith  and  Catechisms,  by  a  ready,  pertinent, 
and  abundant  quotation  of  Scripture  texts  for  that 
purpose.  He  must  have  studied,  carefully  and  correct¬ 
ly,  Natural,  Didactic,  Polemic,  and  Casuistic  Theo¬ 
logy.  He  must  have  a  considerable  acquaintance  with 
General  History  and  Chronology,  and  a  particular  ac¬ 
quaintance  with  the  history  of  the  Christian  Church _ 

Thus  he  will  be  preparing  to  become  an  able  and  sound 
divine  and  casuist. 

He  must  have  read  a  considerable  number  of  the  best 
practical  writers  on  the  subject  of  religion.  He  must  have 
Learned  to  compose  with  correctness  and  readiness  in  his 
own  language,  and  to  deliver  what  he  has  composed  to 
others  in  a  natural  and  acceptable  manner.  He  must  be 
well  acquainted  with  the  several  parts,  and  the  proper 
structure  oi  popular  lectures  and  sermons.  He  must  have 
composed  at  least  two  lectures  and  four  popular  sermons, 
that  shall  have  been  approved  by  the  professors.  He  must 

have  carefully  studied  the  duties  of  the  pastoral  care _ - 

Thus  he  will  be  prepared  to  become  a  useful  preacher, 
and  a  faithful  pastor. 

He  must  have  studied  attentively  the  form  of  Church 
Government  authorized  by  the  Scriptures,  and  the  ad¬ 
ministration  oi  it  as  it  has  taken  place  in  Protestant 
Churches.  Thus  he  will  be  qualified  to  exercise  disci¬ 
pline,  and  to  take  part  in  the  government  of  the  Church 
in  all  its  judicatories. 


14 


Sect.  2.  The  period  of  continuance  in  the  Theological 
Seminary  shall,  in  no  case,  be  less  than  three  years,  pre¬ 
viously  to  an  examination  for  a  certificate  of  approbation. 
But  students  may  enter  the  seminary,  and  enjoy  the  course 
of  instruction  for  a  shorter  time  than  three  years,  provi¬ 
ded  thev  in  all  other  respects  submit  to  the  laws  of  the 
Seminary,  of  which  facts  they  may  receive  a  written  de¬ 
claration  from  the  professors. 

Sect.  3.  Those  pupils  who  have  regularly  and  dili¬ 
gently  studied  for  three  years,  shall  be  admitted  to  an 
examination  on  the  subjects  specified  in  this  article.  The 
examination  shall  be  conducted  by  the  professors,  in  the 
presence  of  the  board  of  directors,  or  a  committee  of 
them  ;  and  if  it  be  passed  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  direc¬ 
tors,  they  who  so  pass  it,  shall  receive  a  certificate  of  the 
same,  signed  by  the  professors,  with  which  they  shall  be 
remitted  to  their  several  presbyteries,  to  be  disposed  of 
as  such  presbyteries  shall  direct.  Those  who  do  not  pass 
a  satisfactory  examination  shall  remain  a  longer  space  in 
the  Seminary. 

Sect.  4.  It  shall  be  the  object  of  the  professors  to 
make  such  arrangements  in  the  instruction  of  their  pupils, 
as  shall  be  best  adapted  to  enable  them,  in  the  space  of 
three  years,  to  be  examined  with  advantage  on  the  sub¬ 
jects  specified  in  this  article. 


ARTICLE  Y. 

Of  Devotion ,  and  Improvement  in  Practical  Piety. 

It  ought  to  be  considered  as  an  object  of  primary  im¬ 
portance  by  every  student  in  the  Seminary,  to  be  careful 
and  vigilant  not  to  lose  that  inward  sense  of  the  power  of 
godliness  which  he  may  have  attained ;  but,  on  the  con¬ 
trary,  to  grow  continually  in  a  spirit  of  enlightened  de¬ 
votion  and  fervent  piety  ;  deeply  impressed  with  the  re¬ 
collection  that  without  "this,  all  his  other  acquisitions  will 
be  comparatively  of  little  worth,  either  to  himself,  or  to 
the  Church  of  which  he  is  to  be  a  minister. 


15 


He  must  remember,  too,  that  this  is  a  species  of  im¬ 
provement  which  must  of  necessity  be  left,  in  a  great 
measure,  with  himself,  as  a  concern  between  God  and  his 
own  soul. 

It  is  proper,  however,  to  delineate  the  path  of  duty, 
to  express  the  wishes  and  expectations  of  the  founders  of 
the  Seminary,  and  to  make  such  requirements  as  the  na¬ 
ture  of  the  subject  will  permit. 

Sect.  1.  It  is  expected  that  every  student  in  the  The¬ 
ological  Seminary  will  spend  a  portion  of  time  every  mor¬ 
ning  and  evening  in  devout  meditation,  and  self-recol- 
lection  and  examination  ;  in  reading  the  holy  Scriptures, 
solely  with  a  view  to  a  personal  and  practical  application 
of  the  passage  read,  to  his  own  heart,  character,  and  cir¬ 
cumstances  ;  and  in  humble  fervent  prayer  and  praise  to 
God  in  secret. 

The  whole  of  every  Lord’s  day  is  to  be  devoted  to  de¬ 
votional  exercises,  either  of  a  social  or  secret  kind.  In¬ 
tellectual  pursuits,  not  immediately  connected  with  de¬ 
votion  or  the  religion  of  the  heart,  are  on  that  day  to  be 
forborne.  The  books  to  be  read  are  to  be  of  a  practical 
nature.  The  conversations  had  with  each  other  are  to  be 
chiefly  on  religious  subjects.  Associations  for  prayer  and 
praise,  and  for  religious  conference,  calculated  to  promote 
a  growth  in  grace,  are  also  proper  for  this  day  ;  subject  to 
such  regulations  as  the  professors  and  directors  may  see 
proper  to  prescribe.  It  is  wished  and  recommended,  that 
each  student  should  ordinarily  set  apart  one  day  in  a 
month  for  special  prayer  and  self-examination  in  secret, 
and  also  that  he  should,  on  suitable  occasions,  attend  to 
the  duty  of  fasting. 

Sect.  2.  If  any  student  shall  exhibit,  in  his  general  de¬ 
portment,  a  levity  or  indifference  in  regard  to  practical 
religion,  though  it  do  not  amount  to  any  overt  act  of  ir- 
religion  or  immorality,  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  pro¬ 
fessor  who  may  observe  it,  to  admonish  him  tenderly  and 
faithlully  in  private,  and  endeavour  to  engage  him  to  a 
more  holy  temper,  and  a  more  exemplary  deportment. 

Sect.  3.  If  a  student,  after  due  admonition,  persist  in 
a  system  of  conduct  not  exemplary  in  regard  to  religion, 
he  shall  be  dismissed  from  the  Seminary. 

Sect.  4.  The  professors  are  particularly  charged,  by 
all  the  proper  means  in  their  power,  to  encourage,  cherish, 
and  promote  devotion  and  personal  piety  among  their  pu- 


16 


pils,  by  warning  and  guarding  them,  on  the  one  hand, 
against  formality  and  indifference,  and  on  the  other, 
against  ostentation  and  enthusiasm  ;  by  inculcating  prac¬ 
tical  religion  in  their  lectures  and  recitations  ;  by  taking 
suitable  occasions  to  converse  with  their  pupils  privately 
on  this  interesting  subject;  and  by  all  other  means,  in¬ 
capable  of  being  minutely  specified,  by  which  they  may 
foster  true  experimental  religion,  and  unreserved  devo¬ 
tedness  to  God. 


ARTICLE  VI. 


Of  the  Students . 

Section  1.  Every  student,  applying  for  admission  to 
the  Theological  Seminary,  shall  produce  satisfactory  tes¬ 
timonials  that  he  possesses  good  natural  talents,  and  is 
of  a  prudent  and  discreet  deportment ;  that  he  is  in  full 
communion  with  some  regular  Church  :  that  he  has  pass¬ 
ed  through  a  regular  course  of  academical  study  ;  or, 
wanting  this,  he  shall  submit  himself  to  an  examination 
in  regard  to  the  branches  of  literature  taught  in  such  a 
course. 

Sect.  2.  The  first  six  months  of  every  student  in  the 
Seminary  shall  be  considered  as  probationary  ;  and  if,  at 
the  end  of  this  period,  any  student  shall  appear  to  the 
professors  not  qualified  to  proceed  in  his  studies,  they 
shall  so  report  him  to  the  board  of  directors,  who,  if  they 
are  of  the  same  opinion  with  the  professors,  shall  dismiss 
him  from  the  Seminary. 

Sect.  3.  The  hours  of  study  and  of  recreation  for  the 
students  shall  be  fixed  by  the  professors,  with  the  con¬ 
currence  of  the  directors  ;  and  every  student  shall  pay 
a  strict  regard  to  the  rules  established  relative  to  this 
subject. 

Sect.  4.  Every  student  shall  be  obliged  to  write  on 
such  theological  and  other  subjects,  as  may  be  prescribed 
to  him  by  the  professors.  In  the  first  year,  every  student 
shall  be  obliged  to  produce  a  written  composition  on 


17 

such  subjects,  at  least  once  in  every  month  ;  in  the  second 
year,  once  in  three  weeks;  in  the  th;rd  year,  once  in  two 
weeks.  Once  a  month  each  student  shall  also  commit  to 
memory  a  piece  of  his  own  composition,  and  pronounce 
it  in  public,  before  the  professors  and  students. 

Sect.  5.  Every  student  shall  not  only  preserve  an  ex¬ 
emplary  moral  character,  but  shall  be  expected  to  treat 
his  teachers  with  the  greatest  deference  and  respect,  and 
all  other  persons  with  civility. 

Sect .  6.  Every  student  shall  yield  a  prompt  and  ready 
obedience  to  all  the  lawful  requisitions  of  the  professors 
and  directors. 

Sect.  7.  Diligence  and  industry  in  study  shall  be  con¬ 
sidered  as  indispensable  in  every  student,  unless  the  want 
of  health  shall  prevent,  of  which  the  professors  shall  take 
cognizance,  and  make  the  suitable  allowance. 

Sect.  8.  Strict  temperance  in  meat  and  drink  is  expect¬ 
ed  of  every  student,  with  cleanliness  and  neatness  in  his 
dress  and  habits  ;  while  all  excessive  expense  in  clothing 
is  strictly  prohibited. 

Sect.  9.  Every  student,  before  he  takes  his  standing  in 
the  Seminary,  shall  subscribe  the  following  declaration, 

viz - “  Deeply  impressed  with  a  sense  of  the  importance 

of  improving  in  knowledge,  prudence,  and  piety,  in  my 
preparation  for  the  Gospel  Ministry,  I  solemnly  promise, 
in  a  reliance  on  divine  grace,  that  I  will  faithfully  and  di¬ 
ligently  attend  on  all  the  instructions  of  this  Seminarv, 
and  that  I  will  conscientiously  and  vigilantly  observe  all 
the  rules  and  regulations  specified  in  the  plan  for  its  in¬ 
struction  and  government,  so  far  as  the  same  relate  to 
the  students  ;  and  that  I  will  obey  all  the  lawful  requi¬ 
sitions,  and  readily  yield  to  all  the  wholesome  admoni¬ 
tions  of  the  professors  and  directors  of  the  Seminary, 
while  I  shall  continue  a  member  of  it.” 

Sect.  10.  There  shall  be  two  vacations  in  the  Semina- 
ry,  of  six  weeks  continuance  each,  in  every  year.  The 
spring  vacation  shall  commence  on  the  Monday  immedi¬ 
ately  preceding  the  third  Thursday  of  May.  The  vaca¬ 
tion  in  the  autumn  shall  commence  on  the  first  Wednes¬ 
day  of  October. 


C 


18 


ARTICLE  VII.* 


Of  the  Library. 

Section  1.  To  obtain,  ultimately,  a  complete  theologi¬ 
cal  Library,  shall  be  considered  as  a  leading  object  of  the 
Institution. 

Sect.  2.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  directors  to  pre¬ 
sent  to  the  General  Assembly,  a  catalogue  of  the  most 
necessary  books  for  the  commencement  of  a  library,  and 
recommend  the  purchase  of  such  a  number  as  the  state  of 
the  iunds  will  permit. 

Sect.  3.  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  professors  to  procure 
and  keep  a  large  folio,  to  be  denominated,  The  Prospec¬ 
tus  of  a  Catalogue  of  a  Theological  Library.  In  this  folio, 
divided  into  proper  heads,  each  professor  shall,  at  his 
pleasure,  enter,  in  its  proper  place,  the  title  of  such  books 
as  he  shall  deliberately  judge  to  be  proper  for  the  libra¬ 
ry.  The  board  of  directors,  or  the  members  of  it  indi¬ 
vidually,  may  do  the  same.  From  this  folio  it  shall  be 
the  duty  of  the  directors  to  select  such  books  as  they 
think  most  necessary,  and  as  the  sum  appropriated  for 
the  current  year  will  purchase,  and  recommend  their  pur¬ 
chase  to  the  Assembly.  The  Assembly  shall,  annually, 
decide  by  vote,  what  sum  of  money,  for  the  current 
year,  shall  be  laid  out  in  the  purchase  of  books. 

Sect.  4.  A  suitable  room  or  apartment  shall  be  assign¬ 
ed  tor  the  library.  The  shelves  ror  the  books  shall  be 
divided  into  compartments  or  alcoves;  and  if  any  one  of 
them  be  filled,  or  nearly  so,  by  a  donor,  his  name  shall 
be  conspicuously  placed  over  it. 

Sect.  5.  A  librarian  shall  be  appointed  by  the  Assem¬ 
bly. 

Sect.  6.  No  book  shall  be  permitted,  on  any  occasion, 
to  be  carried  from  the  Seminary. 

*  This  article  is  laid  over  for  the  consideration  of  the  next  Assem¬ 
bly. 


19 


Sect.  7.  A  book  of  donations  shall  be  carefully  kept 
by  the  librarian,  in  which  shall  be  entered,  by  him,  the 
books  given  to  the  library,  the  time  when,  and  the  name 
of  the  donor. 

Sect.  8.  Regulations  for  the  use  of  the  library,  not  in¬ 
consistent  with  the  provisions  of  this  Article,  shall  be  de¬ 
tailed  in  a  system  of  by-laws,  for  that  purpose  ;  to  be 
draughted  by  the  first  librarian,  and  occasionally  modifi¬ 
ed  and  added  to,  as  circumstances  shall  require,  by  his 
successors  ;  which  regulations,  after  being  ratified  by  the 
board  of  directors,  shall  be  authoritative. 


ARTICLE  YIII. 


Of  the  Funds . 

Section  1.  The  funds  of  the  Institution  shall  be  kept, 
at  all  times,  entirely  distinct  and  separate  from  all  other 
monies  or  funds  whatsoever  ;  and  they  shall  be  deposited 
in  the  hands  of  such  corporation,  or  disposed  of  for  safe 
keeping  and  improvement,  in  such  other  manner,  as  the 
General  Assembly  shall  direct. 

Sect.  2.  The  board  of  directors  shall,  from  time  to 
time,  as  they  may  see  proper,  lay  before  the  Assembly 
plans  for  the  improvement  of  the  funds,  and  propositions 
for  the  appropriation  of  such  sums  as  they  may  think  ne¬ 
cessary  for  particular  purposes. 

Sect.  3.  No  money  shall,  at  any  time,  be  drawn  from 
the  funds,  but  by  an  appropriation  and  order  of  the 
Assembly  for  the  purpose. 

Sect.  4.  A  fair  statement  shall  annually  be  laid  be¬ 
fore  the  Assembly,  by  the  proper  officer,  of  the  amount 
of  the  funds  belonging  to  the  Seminary,  of  the  items 
which  constitute  that  amount,  and  of  the  expenditures  in 
detail  for  the  preceding  year. 

Sect.  5.  The  intention  and  directions  of  testators  or 
donors,  in  regard  to  monies  or  other  property  left  or 
given  to  the  Seminary,  shall,  at  all  times,  be  sacredly  re¬ 
garded.  And  if  any  individual,  or  any  number  of  indi- 


20 


viduals,  not  greater  than  three,  shall,  by  will,  or  during 
his  or  their  lives,  found  or  endow  a  professorship  or  pro¬ 
fessorships,  a  scholarship  or  scholarships,  or  a  rund  or 
funds,  destined  to  special  purposes,  said  professorships, 
scholarships,  or  funds,  shall  for  ever  afterwards  be  called 
and  known  by  the  name  or  names  of  those  who  founded 
or  endowed  them. 

Sect.  6.  After  supporting  the  professors,  and  defray¬ 
ing  the  other  necessary  charges  of  the  Seminary,  the 
funds  shall  be  applied,  as  lar  as  circumstances  will  ad¬ 
mit,  to  defray  or  diminish  the  expenses  of  those  stu¬ 
dents  who  may  need  pecuniary  aid,  as  well  as  to  lessen,, 
generally,  the  expense  of  a  residence  at  the  Seminary. 


ARTICLE  IX.* 

Of  the  Theological  Academy . 

Section  1.  There  shall  be  established,  at  the  place  of 
the  Theological  Seminary,  and  in  connexion  with  it,  an 
Institution,  to  be  denominated,  A  Theological  Academy . 
The  board  of  directors  shall  have  the  same  superintend¬ 
ance  of  this,  as  of  the  Theological  Seminary,  and  the 
professors  shall  be  chosen  by  the  General  Assembly. 

Sect.  2.  In  this  Academy  there  shall  be  two  profes¬ 
sors  ;  one  of  languages,  and  the  other  of  mathematics 
and  natural  philosophy.  It  is  not  indispensable  that  these 
professors  should  be  ministers  of  the  Gospel ;  but  they 
must  be  members  of  the  Presbyterian  Church,  of  exem¬ 
plary  piety,  and  they  shall  make  the  same  subscription 
at  the  time  of  their  inauguration,  as  the  professors  of  the 
Seminary.  The  professors  of  the  Academy  shall  be  mem¬ 
bers  of  the  faculty. 

Sect.  3.  The  studies  and  exercises  of  the  Academy 
shall  be  calculated  to  prepare  youth  for  the  Theological 
Seminary,  from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  their  Aca¬ 
demical  course  ;  and  the  whole  system  of  instruction 
shall  be  so  devised  and  pursued,  as  shall  appear  most 
conducive  and  effectual  to  prepare  and  qualify  the  youth 
to  enter  on  theological  studies  with  the  greatest  advan- 

*  This  article  is  likewise  referred  to  the  consideration  of  the  next 
Assembly. 


21 


tage.  The  board  of  directors,  (taking  to  their  aid  the 
professors  of  the  Academy,)  shall  delineate  and  detail 
such  a  system,  which  shall  be  reduced  to  writing,  and 
shall  be  strictly  adhered  to  by  the  teachers  of  the  Aca- 

^Srcf.  4.  The  professors  of  the  Academy  shall  be  al¬ 
lowed  tutors  or  assistants,  to  aid  them  in  their  labours, 
when  it  shall  be  judged  necessary  by  the  board  of  di¬ 
rectors. 

Sect.  5.  The  tutors  or  assistants  shall  be  appointed  by 
the  General  Assembly,  and  shall  be  clothed  with  the 
same  power  in  teaching  and  governing  as  the  professors, 
but  shall  not  be  members  of  the  faculty.  They  must  be 
members  in  full  communion  with  the  Presbyterian 
Church,  and  must  subscribe  the  same  formula  as  the 
professors,  changing  only  the  term  professor  for  tutor. 

Sect.  6.  The  Hebrew  language  shall  always  form  a 
part  of  the  studies  of  the  youth  in  the  Academy,  and  this 
shall  be  taught  by  the  professor  of  Oriental  Literature 
and  Biblical  Criticism  in  the  Seminary.  In  like  manner, 
the  professor  of  Divinity  shall  teach  the  subjects  of  logic, 
metaphysics,  and  moral  philosophy  in  the  Academy. 
And  the  professor  of  ecclesiastical  history  shall  teach 
rhetoric,  and  belles  lettres  in  the  Academy. 

Sect.  7.  Two  thirds  of  the  pupils  of  this  Academy 
must  consist  of  those  who  have  made  a  public  and  credi¬ 
ble  profession  of  religion,  by  joining  in  communion  with 
the  Church,  and  maintaining  a  good  standing  with  the 
same ;  and  who  shall  explicitly  avow  it  to  be  their  ob¬ 
ject  to  devote  themselves  to  the  work  of  the  gospel  mi¬ 
nistry.  The  six  first  months  in  the  Academy,  as  in  the 
Seminary,  shall  be  considered  as  probationary. 

Sect.  8.  Though  the  Academy  is  intended  for  the 
education  of  youth  for  the  Gospel  ministry,  and  all  its 
instructions  must  undeviatingly  be  directed  to  that  ob¬ 
ject;  yet  there  may  be  admitted  into  it,  to  the  amount  of 
"one  third  of  its  numbers,  youth  of  irreproachable  moral 
character  and  good  deportment,  who  do  not  publicly 
profess  religion,  nor  avow  it  as  their  intention  to  study 
theology,  but  who  only  seek  improvement  in  languages, 
arts,  and  sciences. 

Sect.  9.  All  who  are  admitted  into  the  Academy,  must 
attend  the  morning  and  evening  prayers  of  the  Seminary, 
public  worship  on  the  sabbath,  and  such  other  religious 


22 


instruction  and  exercises  as  the  professors  and  directors 
shall  think  conducive  to  their  benefit. 

Sect .  10.  The  professors  of  the  Academy  shall  detail 
a  system  of  rules  and  regulations  for  its  benefit,  relative 
to  study,  morals,  and  order,  not  inconsistent  with  this 
plan  ;  which  they  shall  present  to  the  board  of  directors 
as  soon  as  practicable,  and  which,  being  sanctioned  by 
the  board,  shall  be  obligatory  on  all  the  pupils. 

Sect.  11.  All  who  are  admitted  into  the  Academy, 
must  subscribe  the  following  formula,  viz.  “  I  do  so¬ 
lemnly  promise  and  engage,  that  while  I  remain  a  mem¬ 
ber  of  this  Academy,  I  will  diligently  and  conscientious¬ 
ly  pursue  the  studies  here  prescribed,  and  promptly  and 
cheerfully  obey  the  laws  and  officers  of  the  Institution, 
and  will  avoid  all  irreligious  and  immoral  practices, 
books,  and  companions.” 


The  committee  appointed  to  confer  with  the  commit¬ 
tee  of  the  Trustees  of  New  Jersey  College,  reported, 
among  other  things,  That  they  deem  it  expedient,  on 
the  part  of  this  Assembly,  to  appoint  a  committee,  with 
ample  powers,  to  meet  a  committee  on  the  part  of  the 
Trustees  of  the  College  of  New  Jersey,  invested  with 
similar  powers  ;  to  frame  the  plan  of  a  constitution  for 
the  Theological  Seminary,  containing  the  fundamental 
principles  of  a  union  with  the  Trustees  of  that  College, 
and  the  Seminary  already  established  by  them,  which 
shall  never  be  changed  or  altered  without  the  mutual 
consent  of  both  parties  ;  provided,  that  it  should  be 
deemed  proper  to  locate  the  Assembly’s  Seminary  at  the 
same  place  with  that  ol  the  College. 

Resolved,  that  a  committee  for  these  purposes  be 
appointed  accordingly ;  and  that  said  committee  be  fur¬ 
ther  instructed,  and  invested  with  powers  to  receive  any 
propositions  which  may  be  made  to  them  for  locating 
the  said  Seminary  in  any  other  situation,  if  it  be  lound 
expedient :  all  which  shall  be  fairly  and  fully  reported 
to  the  next  Assembly.  This  report  was  adopted,  and  a 
resolution  passed  to  elect  said  committee  in  the  after¬ 
noon. 

The  subject  of  locating  the  Theological  Seminary  be¬ 
ing  discussed,  it  was  determined  by  a  vote  of  the  As¬ 
sembly,  that  the  rivers  Raritan  and  Potowmac  be  the 
limits  within  which  the  Seminary  shall  be  located. 


\ 


Agreeably  to  the  resolution  of  the  forenoon,  an  elec¬ 
tion  was  held  for  a  Committee  to  meet  with  a  Com¬ 
mittee  of  the  Trustees  of  New  Jersey  College  ;  and,  the 
ballot  being  taken,  Drs.  Alexander,  Wilson  and  Mille- 
doler,  the  Rev.  Messrs.  John  McDowell  and  Janeway, 
and  Messrs.  Robert  Ralston,  and  Divie  Bethune  were 
declared  duly  elected  to  compose  said  Committee  of  the 
Assembly. 

Resolved,  that  Dr.  Alexander  be  the  Chairman  of  this 
Committee,  that  he  have  power  to  appoint  the  time  and 
place  of  the  first  meeting  of  the  Committee,  and  that  he 
give  notice  accordingly  to  the  members. 

Resolved,  that  the  Committee  appointed  to  confer 
with  a  Committee  of  the  Trustees  of  the  College  of 
New  Jersey,  be,  and  they  hereby  are,  instructed  to  con¬ 
sider  the  several  articles  of  the  plan  of  a  Theological 
Seminary,  so  far  as  the  same  are  adopted  by  this  As¬ 
sembly,  as  their  guide  in  the  proposed  conference,  which 
they  shall  in  no  case  be  permitted  to  contravene. 

The  Committee  appointed  to  consider  the  propriety  of 
appointing  agents,  and  to  take  measures  to  make  the 
monies  collected  for  the  Theological  Seminary  produc¬ 
tive,  brought  in  the  following  resolutions,  which  were 
adopted,  viz. 

1.  That  measures  for  obtaining  contributions  for  the 
funds  of  the  Theological  Seminary,  be  vigorously  prose¬ 
cuted  during  the  ensuing  year,  through  the  whole  bounds 
of  the  General  Assembly. 

2.  That  the  agents  for  soliciting  contributions,  who 
wrere  appointed  by  the  last  Assembly,  and  who  have  not 
declined  their  agency,  be  reappointed,  and  that  others 
be  added,  who,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Assembly,  will  pro¬ 
bably  be  active  in  the  business. 

3.  That  it  be  earnestly  recommended  to  all  the  Pres¬ 
byteries  under  the  care  of  the  Assembly,  to  take  the 
most  effectual  order  to  obtain  subscriptions  from  all  their 
congregations,  both  settled  and  vacant,  lor  aiding  the 
funds  in  contemplation  ;  and  for  this  purpose,  that  they 
make  it  the  duty  of  every  minister  to  take  up  subscrip¬ 
tions  in  his  own  charge,  and  appoint  proper  persons  to 
do  the  same  in  the  vacancies  ;  and  also,  that  the  several 
members  aid,  so  far  as  may  be  necessary  and  practica¬ 
ble,  the  agents  whom  the  General  Assembly  have  ap¬ 
pointed  to  solicit  at  large. 


24 


4.  That  the  sums  of  money  already  collected,  or  which, 
may  hereafter  be  collected  for  the  funds  of  the  Theolo¬ 
gical  Seminary,  be  forwarded,  as  soon  as  may  be  prac¬ 
ticable,  to  the  treasurer  of  the  Trustees  of  the  Assem¬ 
bly  ;  and  that  the  said  Trustees  be  directed  to  invest 
such  money  in  some  productive  public  stock. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  the  agents  for  the  ensuing 
year,  appointed  by  the  Assembly  to  solicit  donations  for 
the  establishment  of  the  Theological  Seminary,  includ¬ 
ing  the  agents  reappointed,  and  also  the  new  appoint¬ 
ments  made  in  addition,  viz. 

Of  the  Synod  of  Albany. 

Rev.  Jedidiah  Chapman,  Rev.  Jonas  Coe, 

William  Morrison,  William  Neill, 

James  Carnahan,  John  Chester, 

Mr.  Isaac  Hutton  and  Col.  John  Linklaen. 

Of  the  Synod  of  New  York  and  New  Jersey. 

Rev.  Samuel  Miller,  D.  D.  Rev.  John  McNeice, 
Philip  Milledoler,  D.  D.  I  saac  Vandoren, 

John  B.  Romeyn,  D.  D.  Gardener  Spring, 

James  Richards,  Mr.  John  Mills  and 

David  Comfort,  Divie  Bethune. 


Of  the  Synod  of  Philadelphia . 

Rev.  Ashbel  Green,  D.  D.  Rev.  John  B.  Patterson, 
Nathanael  Irwin,  James  Inglis, 

James  Muir,  D.  D.  Mr.  Robert  Ralston, 

John  Glendy,  Thomas  Leiper, 

Archibald  Alexander  D.  D.  John  McMullin, 

John  E.  Latta,  Christopher  Johnson  & 

John  B.  Slemons,  William  McDonald. 


Of  the  Synod  of  Virginia. 


Rev.  Drury  Lacy, 

John  D.  Blair, 
William  Williamson 
Samuel  Houston, 
Conrad  Speece, 


Rev.  John  H.  Rice, 

Samuel  B.  Wilson, 

Mr.  — - Hume,  and 

William  Calhoun, 


25 


Of  the  Synod  of  Pittsburgh. 

Rev.  Samuel  Ralston,  Rev.  William  Spear,  and 

James  Guthrie,  James  Hughes. 

Of  the  Synod  of  Kentucky. 

Rev.  Robert  G.  Wilson,  Rev.  Archibald  Cameron,  & 
James  Blythe,  Joshua  L.  Wilson. 


Of  the  Synod  of  the  Carolinas . 


Rev.  James  Hall,  D.  D.  Rev. 
Daniel  Brown, 

Henry  Kollock,  D.  D.  Hon 
Malcolm  McNair,  Maj. 
John  Couser,  Dr. 

James  W.  Thompson, 
Moses  Waddell,  d.  d.  Mr. 
William  L.  Turner, 
William  McPheeters, 
John  Brown, 

Andrew  Flinn, 


John  Fdliot  of  Medway, 
Dr.  Buchan, 

.  William  B  Chavis, 
Samuel  Robertson, 
John  Cumming,  of  Sa¬ 
vanna. 

John  Bolton,  of  Savanna. 
Thomas  Cumming, 
Charles  Banks. 

John  Brownlte  of 
Charleston. 


Besides  their  appointment  to  solicit  in  general  with¬ 
in  their  respective  districts,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Milledoler 
was  appointed  to  solicit  particularly  on  Long  Island,  and 
the  Rev.  John  E.  Latta  in  Baltimore  ;  on  the  east  side 
of  the  Hudson,  the  Rev.  Jonas  Coe;  on  the  west  side 
of  the  Hudson,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Neill  in  Albany,  Sche- 
nactedy  and  the  towns  adjacent. 

Ordered,  that  the  foregoing  resolutions,  and  appoint¬ 
ments  of  agents,  be  printed  with  the  revised  plan  of  the 
Theological  Seminary,  and  that  a  competent  number  of 
copies  be  transmitted,  by  the  stated  clerk,  to  the  Pres¬ 
byteries  under  the  care  of  the  Assembly. 

It  was  also  recommended  by  the  Assembly,  that  the 
Presbyteries  take  order  to  supply  the  pulpits  of  the 
ministers,  who  are  appointed  agents,  during  the  time 
of  their  absence  from  their  charges  in  prosecuting  the 
business  of  their  agency. 

The  Committee  appointed  to  lay  before  the  Assem¬ 
bly,  the  amount  of  the  subscriptions  and  donations,  ob¬ 
tained  by  the  agents  appointed  by  the  last  Assembly  to 
solicit  donations  for  the  Theological  Seminary,  reported, 


26 


that  it  appeared,  from  the  reports  of  said  agents  made 
to  this  Assembly,  that  donations  to  the  amount  of 
g>  14,000,  or  $15,000,  had  been  obtained  for  the  afore¬ 
said  purpose.  Of  this  sum  $3,000  are  subscribed  in  the 
city  of  New  York  ;  $1500  are  on  papers  in  the  hands 
of  the  Rev.  John  E.  Latta  of  the  state  of  Delaware  ; 
$1,100  on  papers  in  the  hands  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  James 
Hall  of  North  Carolina  ;  $1000,  on  papers  in  the  hands 
of  the  Rev.  Malcolm  McNair  of  the  same  state.  To  the 
support  of  this  Institution,  Deacon  William  Falconer, 
late  of  the  city  of  Philadelphia,  has  devoted  the  whole  of 
his  estate,  supposed  to  be  worth  eight  or  nine  thousand 
dollars  ;  and  Mr.  William  Minnes  of  Upper  Octorara 
has  bequeathed  the  sum  of  $200,  if  the  said  Institution 
be  established  by  the  Assembly,  to  be  paid  one  year  af¬ 
ter  his  decease. 

From  the  Statement  of  the  Agents,  it  moreover  ap¬ 
peared,  that,  on  account  of  peculiar  circumstances,  they 
have  not  in  many  places  made  any  applications  for  do¬ 
nations  for  this  object ;  nevertheless,  sufficient  grounds 
are  afforded  to  believe,  that,  by  suitable  exertions,  ample 
funds  will  be  obtained  for  the  establishment  and  support 
of  a  Theological  School  under  the  direction  of  the  Ge¬ 
neral  Assembly. 

By  order  of  the  General  Assembly . 

Attest , 

JACOB  J.  JANEWAY,  Stated  Clerk. 


Philadelphia,  June  18,  1811. 


A 


* 


\ 


THE  PLAN  /  OF  A  /  THEOLOGICAL 

SEMINARY  /  ADOPTED  BY  /  THE  GENERAL 

z' 

ASSEMBLY  /  OF  /  THE  PRESBYTERIAN  CHURCH  / 
IN  THE  /  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA  ,  /  IN 
THEIR  SESSIONS  OF  MAY  LAST,  /  A.D.  1811; 
/  TOGETHER  WITH  THE  MEASURES  TAKEN  BY 
THEM/TO  CARRY  THE  PLAN  INTO  EFFECT.  / 

-  /  PHILADELPHIA:  /  PRINTED  BY 

JANE  AIT KEN ,  NO.  71,  NORTH  THIRD  STREET. 

/ - /  1811. 

26  p .  ,  200®. 

Extracted  from  bound  volume;  marks 
of  sewing  and  piece  of  binding  show. 

All  pages  watermarked  on  upper  left- 
hand  corner.  Last  four  leaves  (p.21- 
26)  worm-eaten  on  lower  right-hand 
corner. 

Presented  to  the  Library  of  the 
Princeton  Theological  Seminary  by 
John  H.  Schelde,  on  December  12,  1969. 


