                                          (   JUi.   - 1951
     BIOGRAPHICAL SKEsAlES                                ,,




FOUNDEll AND rillNCIP/VL ALUMNI




     LOG COLLEGE.
TOCETnER WITH AN ACCOUNT OF TUE REVIVALS OF RELlGlOir
               UNDER THEIR MINISTRY.




        COLLECTED AND EDITED


    ARCHIBALD ALEXANDER, D. D.




                  riiiLADELrniA:
rRESBYTERIAN BOARD OF PUBLICATION,
                No. 26d   CILESTNUT STKEET.
 Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by
                  A.     W. Mitchell, M. D.
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Eastern District

                           of Pennsylvania.




           Stereotyped   bySLOTE & Moonef, rhiladelpbia.

            Printed by   Wm. S. Maiitien.
                   Contents^.




                   CHAPTER I.
THE LOG COLLEGE,

                   CHAPTER II.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. WILLIAM TENNENT, SEN.      .   13

                 CHAPTER ni.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT,               24

                   CHAPTER IV.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT, Continued,    38

                   CHAPTER V.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT, Continued,    53

                   CHAPTER VI.
MEMOIR OP THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT, Concluded,    68

                 CHAPTER VII.
THE LOG COLLEGE THE GERM FROM WHICH PRO-
  CEEDED THE COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY,               70

                 CHAPTER Vin.
THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL,                            86
                                        (3)
4                CONTENTS.
                CHAPTER IX.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOUN TENNENT,                       98

                CHAPTER     X.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. WILLIAM TENNENT, JR.       .   .   109

                CHAPTER XI.
REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING NARRATIVE, .... 147

                CHAPTER XII.
ANECDOTES OF THE REV. WILLIAM TENNENT, JR. 150

                CHAPTER Xm.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. CHARLES TENNENT,                   160

                CHAPTER XIV.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR,                      164

                CHAPTER XV.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN BLAIR,                        197

               CHAPTER XVI.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY, D.D.,   .   .   .   204

               CHAPTER XVn.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. WILLIAM ROBINSON, .... 215

              CHAPTER XVm.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND,                      234

                CHAPTER XIX.
MEMOIR OF THE REV. CHARLES BEATTY,                    247



APPENDIX,                                             251
              DEDICATION.
TO THE REVEREND PRESBYTERY OF             NEW BRUNSWICK.

  Dear Brethren,       —There   is   a propriety in dedica-
ting this book to you, as it owes its existence to your
appointment of the author to deliver a centenary dis-
course on the 8th of August, 1838.             A
                                        copy of this
discourse you were pleased to ask for publication, a
compliance with which the preacher respectfully de-
clined, because he found that all the facts and documents
relative to the origin of the New Brunswick Presby-
tery could not be included in a single discom'se ; but
he determined to make use of such materials as he
possessed, or could obtain, to form a small volume, and
lay it before your reverend body.      This purpose he
has been enabled imperfectly to carry into effect        ;   and
he now solicits your candid and favourable attention to
a work, which   is   intended to give the people of the
present age an opportunity of seeing what the state of
things in this region was a hundred years ago.
  As most of those connected with the New Brunswick
Presbytery, in its earliest days, were educated at Mr.
Tennent's school, at Neshaminy, commonly called the
Log College, to give some appearance of unity to the
work, the history contained in       it   is   connected with
this humble, but useful Institution.
       1*                                          i^)
G                          DEDICATION.

    And as the time -when this Presbytery had its origin
Avas a period favoured with          remarkable revivals of re-
ligion ;   and the men, who then composed this Presby-
tery,   eminent instruments, in carrying forward            this
good work     ;    it   was judged    to   be expedient to give
as distinct and full an account of the outpouring of the
Spirit of God in those days as could           now be obtained.
And as narratives were written by those most inti-
mately conversant with this great revival, which were
printed in books         now rarely to be met with, it was
thought best to rescue these documents from oblivion,
and give them unaltered in the very words of the
original writers.
    The editor cannot but think that the biographical
sketches here given from authentic authorities, Avill be
acceptable to the present members of the Presbytery
of New Brunswick ; and he is persuaded, that the con-
gregations in which the displays of divine grace were
so wonderful a century past, will be benefited            by a
perusal of the narratives here given.              Many pious
people     among us       are not aware that the ground on
which they tread has, as         it   were, been hallowed    by
the footsteps of the Almighty.              And who knows but
that prnyers then oiTcred in faith            remain yet to be
answered ?
            I am with sincere regard.
                  Your brother in the gospel of Christ,
                                Archibald Alexander.
                              CHAPTER I.

                   THE LOG COLLEGE.

                                       —           —      —     —
AsFOciation gives interest to places Lojj College Xanie Site Size
  Utter Desolation—                         —
                      Country around Dr. James P. Wilson Kelic— —   -*




                               —
  Suggestion of a Monument Importance of the Institution.


By association, objects which have nothing interest-
ing in themselves, acquire an importance, by reason
of the persons or things whicli they constantly suggest
to our minds.    The rock of Plymouth has nothing in
it which renders it intrinsically superior to thousands

of other rocks in the country      and the site of James-
                                            ;


tOAvn has nothing but its interesting associations to
engage the attention of any one. But these spots, as
being the first habitations of the Em-opcan settlers, in
this part of the ncAV Avorld, arc invested with an interest
which is felt by all and this interest, instead of grow-
                          ;


ing weaker by the lapse of time, gathers new strength
every year.    Indeed, it is only a recent thing, that the
public attention has been particularly called to these
objects.   And though there may be an excess in the
emotions cherished by some, and an affectation of lively
interest in others   yet, it cannot be doubted, that there
                      ;


is a foundation in human nature for the interest which
is   excited   by particular           objects, places,   and scenes.
And the more intimately these associations are related
to religion, the deeper and more permanent the feeling
becomes.     By the abuse of this principle much super-
stition has been generated    but the moderate and ju-
                                        ;


dicious use of it may, undoubtedly, be conducive to
piety.   Sacred, or holy places, figure largely in all
false systems of religion   and under the old dispensa-
                                   ;



                                                          (7)
8                   THE LOG COLLEGE.
tion, tlic people of God were encouraged to reverence
those places where the worship of God was appointed
to be celebrated.    Under the gospel dispensation, it is
true, we have no holy places or houses, to which the
"worship of God is confined but in every place, whether
                           ;



by sea or land whether in the grove, on the mountain
                ;


top, or in the open field, or the lonely vale, God may
be worshipped. Yet, who does not entertain peculiar
feelings of interest in relation to those places, where
Christ was born     —                         —
                    where he was brought up Avhcre he
                                —
preached and wrought miracles but, especially, Avhcre
he suflfered and died, and where he was buried and
            —
arose again and where he ascended to heaven, in the
presence of his disciples ?  This feeling is natural, and
associated with love to Christ, but it readily becomes
excessive, and degenerates into superstition.       There
never was a book in which there is so little to foster
superstition, as the Bible.   We never there read of the
apostles, when they came up to Jerusalem, resorting to
any of these places, or expressing the smallest degree
of veneration for them.     The natm-al tendency of the
human mind seems to have been counteracted, for the
very purpose of preventing superstition just as the
                                          ;

natural passions of the evangelists seem to have been
restrained in writing the gospels.
   Of late, considerable curiosity has been manifested
to ascertain the place where the first Presbyterian
church, in this country, was formed; and the history
of the first Presbyterian preacher who came to Amer-
ica, which had sunk into oblivion, has, of late, been
brought prominently into view.          Such researches,
when unaccompanied with boasting and vainglory, are
laudable. And to gratify a similar curiosity, in regard
to the first literary institution, above common schools,
in the bounds of the Presbyterian church, this small
book has been compiled. That institution, we believe,
was, what has been called the log college.      The
reason of the epithet prefixed to the word " Col-
lege," might be obscui'c to a Eui'opean; but in this
               THELOGCOLLEGE.                            9

country, where log-cabins arc so numerous, Avill be in-
telligible to all classes of readers.   This edifice, which
was made of logs, cut out of the woods, probably,
from the very spot where the house was erected, was
situated in Bucks county, Pennsylvania, about twenty
miles north of Philadelphia.        The Log College has
long since disappeared; so that although the site on
which it stood is well known to many in the vicinity,
there is not a vestige of it remaining on the ground
and no appearance which would indicate that a house
ever stood there.     The fact is, that some owner of the
property, never dreaming that there was anything
sacred in the logs of this humble edifice, had them
carried away and applied to some ignoble purpose on
the farm, Avhere they have rotted away like common
timber, from which, if any of them remain, they can
no longer be distinguished. But that some small relic
of this venerable building might be preserved, the late
Presbyterian minister of the place. Rev. Robert B.
Belville, some years ago, rescued from the common
ruin so much of one of these logs, as enabled him, by
paring off the decayed parts, to reduce it to something
of the form of a walking-staff; which, as a token of
respect, and for safe keeping, he presented to the late
Rev. Samuel Miller, D. D., one of the oldest Professors
of the Theological Seminary at Princeton, New Jersey.
   The site of the Log College is about a mile from
that part of Neshaminy creek where the Presbyterian
church has long stood.    The ground near and around
it lies handsomely to the eye, and the more distant
prospect IS very beautiful for while there is a conside-
                           ;


rable extent of fertile, well cultivated land, nearly
level, the view is bounded to the north and west by
a range of liills, which have a very pleasing appear-
ance.
   It may not be improper to observe, that the late
Rev. James P. Wilson, D. D., the learned and admired
pastor of the First Presbyterian church, in Piiiladel-
phia, was so pleased with the scenery and circumstances
10              THE LOG COLLEGE.
of this neifrliboui'hoof], that he purchased a small farm,
•\vliich is, I believe, as near to the site of the Log Col-

lege as any other dwelling, except the one on the farm
on which it was built. To this farm he retired when
no longer able, through bodily weakness, to fulfil the
arduous duties of the pastoral office. And here, in
calm serenity, he spent the last years of his life.
  If I were fond of projects, I would propose that a
monument be erected to the founder of the Log College
on the very site where the building stood, if the land
could be purchased but at any rate, a stone with an
                      ;


inscription might be permanently fixed on or near the
ground.    The tradition respecting this humble institu-
tion of learning exists, not only in the neighbourhood,
but has been extended far to the south and Avest.
   The first Presbyterian ministers in this country were
nearly all men of liberal education.         Some had re-
ceived their education in the universities of Scotland
some in L-eland and others at one of the New Eng-
                  ;


Land colleges. And though there existed such a des-
titution of ministers in this new country, they never
thought of introducing any man into the ministry who
had not received a college or university education, ex-
cept in very extraordinary cases ; of which, I believe,
we have but one instance in the early history of the
Presbyterian church.      This was the case of a Welsh-
man by the name of Evans, who, living in a place
called the Welsh Tract, where the people had no public
means of grace, began to speak to them of the things
of God, on the Sabbath, and at other times; and his
labours were so acceptable and useful that the presby-
tery, after a full trial of his abilities, licensed him to
preach, and afterwards ordained him to the whole work
of the ministry.     They required him, however, to go
through a course of study, under the direction of cer-
tain members of the Presbytery.          There is, indeed,
another case that may possibly fall into this class.
" The people of Gape May were without a pastor Mr.   ;


Braducr, a candidate for the ministry, was willing to
                TUE LOG COLLEGE.                         11

serve them, but had no autliority to preach.    In this
emergency three of the nearest ministers, Messrs.
Davis, Hampton, and Henry, on their own responsi-
bility, examined and licensed him."*     But as he was
before a candidate, and a Scotchman, there is a strong
probability that he was a liberally educated man.
   There seems to be no written record of the exist-
ence of such an edifice as that which we are describing
by any contemporary writer, except in the Journal of
Rev. George Whitefield, the celebrated evangelist, who
traversed this country several times, preaching every-
where with a popularity and success Avhich have never
been equalled by any other. It will be proper, there-
fore, to extract the paragraph which relates to this
subject; as he gives the dimensions of the building,
and expressly says that it had obtained the name of
"THE COLLEGE." "The place," says he, "wherein
the young men study now, is in contempt called The
College.  It is a log house, about twenty feet long, and
near as many broad and to me it seemed to resemble
                       ;


the school of the old prophets, for their habitations
were mean; and that they sought not great things for
themselves is plain from those passages of Scripture,
wherein we are told that each of them took them a
beam to build them a house : and that at the feast of
the sons of the prophets, one of them put on the pot,
whilst the others went to fetch some herbs out of the
field.  All that we can say of most of our universities
is, they are   glorious without.  From this despised
place, seven or eight worthy ministers of Jesus have
lately been sent forth; more are almost ready to be
sent, and the foundation is now laying for the instruc-
tion of many others."     The Journal, from which the
preceding extract is taken, was printed in Philadel-
phia, by Benjamin Franklin, the same year in which
Mr. Whitefield visited the Log College. From this
testimony it appears, that the name College was given
to the building out of contempt, by its enemies; but

          * Sco Records of the i^yuoJ of Philadelphia.
12              TUELOGCOLLEGE.
iu this, as in many other things, that which is lightly
esteemed among men, is precious in the sight of the
Lord.   Though as poor a house as perhaps was ever
erected for the purpose of giving a liberal education, it
was, in a noble sense, a college; a fountain, from
which, as we shall see hereafter, proceeded streams of
blessings to the church. We shall again have occasion
to advert to Mr. Whitefield's Journal, when we come
to speak of the founder of this College   ; but we shall
now proceed to finish what we have to say respecting
the site and the building.
   When the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church in the United States determined, in the year
1811, to establish a Theological Seminary, for the more
thorough training of her candidates for the sacred office,
there was much diversity of opinion respecting the
most eligible site for the institution. Between Prince-
ton, New Jersey, and Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, the
chief competition existed ; but there were a few persons
Avho were strongly in favour of placing it on the very
site of the Log College.      The llev. Nathaniel Irwin,
then pastor of the church at Neshaminy, and a man
of profound understanding, Avas earnestly desirous that
it should be planted on the grovmd where a building
had once stood, to which the Presbyterian church owes
so much.    And to manifest his sincerity and zeal, Mr.
Irwin left, in his will, one thousand dollars to the Sem-
inary, on condition that it should be ultimately located
on this site.
                          CHAPTER II.

        MEMOIR OP THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN.


A minister of the Irish Episcopal Church — Emigrates with his family to
          —                                                   —
  America Applies for admission into the Synod and is received Settles
  permanently at Neshaminy— Erects the Log College— Visits Whitcfield,
                      —
  and ia visited by him His character and death.


   We come now to give some account of the founder
of the    Log College.     The Rev. William Tennent,
sen., was  a native of Ireland, where he was brought
up and received a liberal education ; but at what col-
lege or university is not known.    It is probable, how-
ever, that he obtained his learning at Trinity College,
Dublin, as he belonged originally to the Episcopal
Church of Ireland, in which he took orders. By a
small memorandum book kept by the Rev. William Ten-
nent, sen., it appears that he was married to a daughter
of the Rev. Mr. Kennedy, May, 1702, in the county
of Down, in the north of Ireland        that he was or-
                                               ;


dained a deacon, in the Episcopal church of Ireland
on the 1st day of July, 1704 ; and ordained priest on
the 22d of September, 1706.      After entering the holy
ministry, he acted as chaplain to an Irish nobleman.
But there is no evidence that he was ever settled over
a parish in that country; the reason assigned by the
author of the Memoir of William Tennent, jr., was that
he could not conscientiously conform to the terms im-
posed on the clergy of that kingdom. He remained in
Ireland until he was past middle age. The truth is, that
very little is kno^Mi of Mr. Tennent until he arrived in
America. From Dr. Elias Boudinot, who was very
intimate with the whole family, we learn that Mr.
     2                                         (13)
14              THE LOG COLLEGE.
Tennent, in Ireland, became acquainted with the Rev.
Mr. Kennedy, a distinguished Presbyterian preacher,
who, having suiFered persecution in his own country,
exercised his ministry in Holland with great success.
The only other notice of this zealous and evangelical
preacher which has been found is in the " Vindication"
by the Rev. Samuel Blair, in which, speaking of the
objections made to the revival, he says, " Several have
very sufficiently answered the objections against the
work itself, as Mr. Edwards in New England, Mr
Dickinson in New Jersey, Mr. Finley in Pennsylvania,
Mr. Robe and Mr. Webster in Scotland, and Mr. Ken-
nedy in Holland." He then remarks that Mr. Ken-
nedy had published Mr. Edwards's "Narrative," with
attestations from Scotland, translated by him into the
Dutch language. It would be very desirable to obtain
some further information of this Mr. Kennedy, who is
spoken of as a man of like spirit with Edwards, and
Dickinson, and Robe, and Webster, and Finley.        But,
probably, there remains no earthly record of his labours,
his sufferings, and successes.
   Our attention has been directed to this man, -not
merely because Mr. Tennent became acquainted with
him, but especially because he married his daughter,
who was  the mother of his four sons, and emigrated
with him to America.    And it is exceedingly probable
that from this man, Mr. Tennent imbibed his love of
the Presbyterian system.    Mr. Tennent's eldest son
was no doubt called after his grandfather Kennedy,
whose name was Gilbert.
   In the Memoir of William Tennent, jr., it is said
that his father arrived in America in the year 1718
but in the sketch of the life of Gilbert Tennent, in the
Assembly's Magazine, for May, 1805, " that he came
over in 1716," which last is believed to be the more
accurate statement.   Upon his arrival, he settled first
in the state of New York, where he resided for some
time at East Chester, and then at Bedford.     Not long
after his emigration to America, Mr. Tennent applied
            THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN.                                 15

to the Synod of Philadelphia, to be received, as a minis-
ter, into their connexion.         The Synod did not act hastily
in this affair, but after full deliberation, agreed to
receive Mr. Tcnnent as a member of their body.     Be-
fore doing this, however, they required him to lay
before them, in writing, the reasons which had induced
him to separate himself from the Episcopal church.
And these reasons were ordered to be entered on
record.    The minute of the Synod, as found in the
printed book of records of the Presbyterian church, is
as follows   " Mr. William Tennent's affair being trans-
              :


mitted by the committee [of overtures] to the Synod,
was by them fully considered, being well satisfied with
his credentials, and the testimony of some brethren
here present ; as also, they were satisfied with the ma-
terial reasons which he offered concerning his dissent-
ing from the Established Church of Ireland ; being put
to a vote of the Synod, it was carried in the aflSlrmative
to admit him as a member of the Synod.          Ordered,
that his reasons be inserted on the Synod book ad fu-
turam rci memoriam. The Synod also ordered that
the modei*ator should give him a serious exhortation to
continue steadfast in his now holy profession, which
was done."*

  * " The reasons of Mr. AVilliam Tcnnent for his dissenting from the
Established Church in Ireland, delivered by him to the Reverend Synod,
held in Philadelphia, the 17th day of September, 1718.
   "fiiqirim is. Their government by Bishops, Arch-Bishops, Deacons, Arch-
Deacons, Canons, Chapters, Chancellors, Vicars, wholly anti-scriptural.
   "2. Their discipline by Surrogates, and Chancellors in their Courts
Ecclesiastic, without a foundation in the word of God.
  " 3. Their abuse of that supposed discipline by commutation.
  "4. A Diocesan Bishop cannot bo founded jure divino upon those
Epistles to Timothy or Titus, nor any where else in the word of God, and
60 is a mere human invention.
  " 5. The usurped power of the Bishops at their yearly visitations,, act-
ing all of themselves, without the consent of the brethren.
  " 6. Pluralities of benefices.
   " Lastly. The Churches conniving at the practice of Arminian doctrines
inconsistent with the eternal purpose of God, and an encouragement of
vice.   Besides, I could not be satisfied with their ceremonial way of wor-
ship.   These, Ac, have so afiTcctcd ray conscience, that I could no longer
abide in a church where the same arc practised. Signed by
                                                 •'
                                                      William Tennent."
16                  THELOGCOLLEGE.
  This transaction took place on the 17th day of Sep-
tember, 1718; it is probable, however, that Mr. Ten-
ncnt's application was first made to the Synod the
previous year although nothing appears on the records
               ;


relative to this matter.  But in the short account of
the Rev. William Tennent, sen., in the Assembly's
Magazine, it   is                    some delay, he was
                     stated, that after
received.    And the    minute recited above seems to
speak of it as a thing before under consideration for ;


it would be very abrupt and unusual to speak of a first

application in the language here used     —
                                         "Mr. Tennent's
afiair," &c., without any notice of any application made
by him. It is probable that the application to Synod
was made in the year 17 17, which was the next year
after his arrival.
   Whether Mr. Tennent had the pastoral care of a
church in the state of New York, does not appear
                                              •



but about the year 1721, he received an invitation to
settle at Bensalem, in Bucks county, Pennsylvania, to
which place he removed his family, and continued to
supply that small Presbyterian congregation until the
year 1726, when he received a call to the Presbyterian
church at Neshaminy, in the same county. In this
place he continued the remainder of his life.       And
here, within a few steps of his own dwelling, he erected
the building which has already been described     which,
                                                  ;

though humble and even despicable in its external ap-
pearance, was an institution of unspeakable importance
to the Presbyterian church in this country.
   It may be proper to remark, in this place, that from
all the accounts which we have, it appears, that at this
time, the state of vital piety was very low in the Pres-
byterian church in America.     And the same was true
of the churches in New England.        And this was re-
markably the fact in regard to Great Britain. The
ministers composing the Presbyterian church, in this
country, were sound in the faith, and strongly attached
to the Westminster Confession of Faith and Catechisms,
as were also their people ; and there were no diversities
           THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN.                  17

or contentions among thcra respecting the doctrines of
the gospel ; but as to the vital power of godliness, there
is                               little known or spoken
     reason to believe that it was
of./ Revivals of religion were   nowhere heard of, and
an orthodox creed, and a decent external conduct were
the only points on Avhich iiKjuiry was made when per-
sons were admitted to the communion of the church.
Indeed, it was very mucli a matter of course, for all
who had been baptized in infancy, to be received into
communion      at the proper age, without exhibiting or
{)ossessing  any satisfactory evidence of a change of
 icart by the supernatural operations of the Holy Spirit.
And the habit of the preachers was to address their
people as though they W'Cre all pious, and only needed
instruction and confirmation.     It was not a common
thing to denounce the terrors of a violated law, and to
insist on the absolute necessity of regeneration. Under
such a state of things, it is easy to conceive, that in a
short time vital piety may have almost deserted the
church, and that formality and "dead orthodoxy" have
been all that was left of religion. And nothing is more
certain, than that when people have sunk into this de-
plorable state they will be disposed to manifest strong
opposition to faithful, pointed preaching ; and will be
apt to view every appearance of revival with an unfa-
vourable eye.       Accordingly, when God raised up
preachers, animated with a bm-ning zeal, who laboured
faithfully to convince their hearers of their ruined con-
dition, and of the necessity of a thorough conversion from
sin, the opposition to them, both in Great Britain and
this country, was violent.     The gospel, among people
in such a condition, is sure to produce strife and divi-
sion between those who fall   under its influence and
those Avhose carnal minds urge them to oppose it.   It
was in such a state of tJie clmrch that Mr. Tennent
came to this country. What his own course of religious
experience had been, we have no information ; but he
seems to have imbibed a warm, evangelical spirit, and
to have been, in this coimtry, distinguished for his zeal
       2*
18             THE LOG COLLEGE.
and efforts in promoting vital piety. When Mr. White-
field first visited Philadelphia, Mr. Tenncnt lost no
time in calling upon him. Though he lived nearly twenty
miles from Philadelphia, yet no sooner did he hear of
the arrival of this evangelical and successful preacher,
than taking with him some of his pious friends, he re-
paired to the city, and from Mr. Whitefield's Journal,
we learn that the visit was very acceptable to him
for he says,  "At my return home [from visiting a
family] was much comforted by the coming of one Mr.
Tennent, an old gray-headed disciple and soldier of
Jesus Christ.    He keeps an academy about twenty
miles from Philadelphia, and has been blessed with
four gracious sons, three of which have been, and still
continue to be, eminently useful in the church of
Christ.  He brought three pious souls along with him,
and rejoiced me by lettuig me know how they had been
spoken evil of for their Master's sake. He is a great
friend of Mr. Erskine, of Scotland   ; and as far as I
can learn, both he and his sons, are secretly despised
by the generality of the Synod, as Mr. Erskine and
his friends are hated by the judicatories of Edinburgh,
and as the Methodist preachers (as they are called)
are by their brethren in England."       This testimony
of Mr. Whitefield goes to show that the course pursued
by old Mr. Tennent and his sons was different from
that of the other ministers of the Synod, to whom he
stood in the same relation as Whitefield, Wesley, and
their coadjutors, to the great   body of the clergy in
England.    Mr. Whitefield, on his return from New
York, went to Neshaminy, and spent some days with
Mr. Tennent.
  Here again we arc glad to have the opportunity of
using the very words of jNIr. AVhitefield.
   "Nov. 22. [17311.] Set out for Neshaminy, (twenty
miles distant from Trent Town,) where old Mr. Ten-
nent lives, and keeps an academy, and where I was to
preach to-day, according to appointment.    About 12
fo'clock] we came thither, and found about three thou-
        THE      llEV.    WM. TENNENT,          SEN.'   19

sand people gathered together, in the meeting-house
yard.   Mr. ^Villianl Tcnncnt, jr., an eminent servant
of Jesus Christ, because we stayed beyond the time ap-
pointed, was preaching to them.      When I came up,
he soon sto])t; sung a psalm, and then I began to
speak, as the Lord gave me utterance.      At hrst, the
people seemed unaftectcd, but in the midst of my dis-
course, the power of the Lord Jesus came upon me,
and I felt such a struggling within myself for the
people, as   I   scarce   ever felt   before.   The hearers
began   to be  melted down immediately, and to cry
much; and we had good reason to hope the Lord in-
tended good for many. After I liad finished, Mr.
Gilbert Tcnnont gave a word of exhortation, to confirm
what had been delivered. At the end of his discourse,
we sung a psalm, and dismissed the people with a
blessing:    that the people may say amen to it! After
our exercises were over we went to old Mr. Tennent's,
who entertained us like one of the ancient patriarchs.
His wife, to me seemed like Elizabeth, and he like
Zachary both, as far as I can learn, walk in all the
         ;


commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless.
Though God was pleased to humble my soul, so that I
was obliged to retire for a while yet we had sweet
                                        ;

communion with each other, and spent the evening in
concerting what measures had best be taken for pro-
moting our dear Lord's kingdom. It happened very
providentially that Mr. Tcnnent and his brethren are
appointed to be a Presbytery by the Synod, so that
they intend bringing up gracious youths, and sending
them out from time to time into the Lord's vineyard.
The place wherein the young men study, now is, in
contempt, called THE cot.leoe, &c.    Friday, Nov. 23
Parted with dear Mr. Tennent, and his other worthy
fellow-labourcis but promised to remember each other
                   ;


publicly in our jiraycrs."
   From the preceding extract we learn that Mr. Ten-
nent was a man of congenial spirit with Mr. Whitefield,
and that he was held in high esteem by this distinguished
20              THE LOG COLLEGE.
preacher and devoted servant of God. Of scarcely any
other minister of any denomination does he make so
honourable a mention, and to no other in this region
did he pay so respectful an attention.  It is certain,
from the foregoing account, that Mr. Tennent was dis-
tinguished among his brethren, as the open and zealous
friend of vital piety, and of revivals of religion.  The
character of his public preaching is nowhere given, and
we are left to infer it from his character; or rather
from the character of his pupils, of whom an account
will be given hereafter.    As a classical scholar, there
can be no doubt of his eminence. The late Hon. Elias
Boudinot, LL. D., who knew him well, says, "that he
was well skilled in the Latin language, that he could
speak and converse in it with as much facility as in his
vernacular tongue, and also, that he was a proficient
in the other ancient languages.      In confirmation of
what he says about his skill in the Latin language, he
relates, that at the next meeting of the Synod of Phila-
delphia after his reception, he delivered before that
body an elegant Latin oration. The writer of a sketch
of the life of the Rev. Gilbert Tennent, inserted in the
May number of the Assembly's Magazine, for the year
1805, says, respecting the Rev. "William Tennent, sen.
"He was eminent as a classical scholar. His attain-
ments in science are not so well known ; but there is
reason to believe they Avere not so great as his skill in
language. His general character appears to have been
that of a man of great integrity, simplicity, industry,
and piety."
  Mr. Tennent was, by his position at Neshaminy, a
member of the Presbytery of Philadelphia; but Avhen
the division of the Synod took place, he attached him-
self to the   New Brunswick Presbytery, to which his
sons Gilbert and William belonged.
   It appears from the published records of the Synod
of Philadelphia, that in the year 1737, a complaint
was made to the Synod, by a part of the congregation
of Neshaminy, against the Rev. William Tennent, their
       THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN.                     21

pastor and also an answer to the same, from another
       ;


part of. the said congregation.     Both of these papers
were read, article by article, and both parties heard
at length what they had to say.        Mr. Thomson was
directed to prepare a minute which should express the
mind of the Synod, in relation to this matter which
                                                 ;


being done, was adopted, viz. "That the reasons ad-
vanced by the disaffected party of that congregation,
in justification of their non-compliance with the Synod's
judgment in relation to them, last year, and their desire
to be freed from Mr. Tennent as their pastor, are utterly
insufficient, being founded (as appears to us), partly
upon ignorance and mistake, and partly (as we fear)
upon prejudice. It is therefore ordered, that the mode-
rator recommend it to said people to lay aside such
groundless dissatisfactions and return to their duty,
which they have too long strayed from otherwise, the
                                         ;


Synod will be bound to treat them as disQi'derly."
This minute was unanimously approved.
   The matter referred to, as having been before the
Synod the preceding year, was, that though Mr. Ten-
nent had so long acted as the pastor of the church at
Ncshaminy, he had never been formally installed. In
regard to which, the Synod had come to the following
judgment: "That it appears evident to the Synod,
that Mr. Tennent having in all respects acted and been
esteemed, and looked upon, not only by the Synod,
but by the congregation of Ncshaminy, and particu-
larly by the appellants themselves, as the minister and
pastor of the people of Ncshaminy, that he is still to
be esteemed as the pastor of that ])eople, notwithstand-
ing the want of a formal instalment among them."
   For some time before his death his health was so
feeble, that he was unable to perform the duties of the
pastoral office, and his pulpit was supplied by the Pres-
bytery,    In the year 1742, we find the following
minute on the records of the Presbytery.       "Mr. Wil-
liam Tennent, sen., gave in to Presbytery a paper, set-
tmg forth his inability, by reason of advanced age, to
22               THE LOa COLLEGE.
discharge the work of the ministry unto the congrega-
tion of Ncshaminy, over wliich, for divers years past
                     —
he has been overseer desiring the Presbytery to grant
to said congregation of Neshaminy, such supplies as
they can."     We find his name enrolled among the
members of tlie New BrunsAvick Presbytery, in the fol-
lowing year (17 4o), and in the same year, he is men-
tioned as present when the Presbytery met to ordain
Mr. Beatty as his successor. It is evident from this,
that he had resigned his charge, for Mr. Beatty is not
said to have been ordained as his colleague.         This
seems to have been the last meeting of Presbytery
which he ever attended. His connection with the con-
gregation was, no doubt, dissolved at the time when he
presented the paper stating his inability to fulfil the
duties of a pastor; for, in the same year, a call was
presented to Mr. William Robinson, wluch he declined
and after this, in 1748, Mr. Beatty having accepted
the call of the people, was ordained their pastor in the
month of October.
   It is stated in the sketch of the life of Gilbert Tcn-
nent, in the Assembly's Magazine, that the Rev. Wil-
liam Tennent, sen., died in the year 1743 but this is
                                            ;


not correct for we find a record in the minutes of the
             ;


New Brunswick Presbytery for the year 1746, of the
following import: "It is reported to the Presbytery
that Mr. William Tennent, son., deceased, since our
last."    The exact date of his death was May 6, 1746,
aged 73. This was communicated to the author by
the Rev. Dr. Miller, who transcribed it from his tomb-
stone.
     He died at his own house, in Neshaminy, and came
to the grave in a good old age, like a shock of corn
fully ripe. lie was buried in the Presbyterian bury-
mg-ground, where his tomb may be yet seen.
  Mr. Tennent, as far as we know, never published
anything.   We have, therefore, no means of ascertain-
ing his abilities as a writer; but the benefit he con-
ferred on the church by his school can never be for-
          THE REV. WM. TENNENT, SEN.                 23

gotten. The Presbyterian churcli is probably not
more indebted for her prosperity, and for the evan-
gelical spirit -whicli has generally pervaded her body,
to any individual than to the elder Tennent.     Some
men accomplish much more By those whom they edu-
cate, than ])y their own personal labours. This should
be an encouragement to such ministers as are obliged
to resort to teaching for their own support.      If they
are so favoured as to be the means of bringing forward
a few pious youth, and preparing them for the minis-
try, they may do more good than if their whole lives
had been spent in doing nothing else but preaching
the Gospel.     And it is good policy for Presbyterian
ministers to establish schools, in their charges, wher-
ever they are needed.      And this they may do, without
subjecting themselves to the drudgery of teaching all
the time.     Pious young men might be found, to whom
such a situation would be a favour ; and such institu-
tions are often necessary to enable a minister to edu-
cate his own sons.       When the means of acquiring a
liberal education are brought to the doors of the peo-
ple, many will avail themselves of the privilege, who
would never have thought of going abroad for the
same purpose. The truth of this remark has been
verified in almost every place where a good school has
been established.
    It is to be regretted that our materials for a memoir
of the Founder of the Lo(J College are so scanty; but
liis usefulness must be estimated by the character of

his pupils, of some of whom we shall have it in our
power to give a more particular account and to this
                                           ;


part of our work we shall now address ourselves.
                      CHAPTER III.

          MEMOIR OF THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.


              —
Gilbert Tennent Birth—          —           —          —
                          Education Conversion Licensure Character
  by Dr. Finley— By Mr. Price— By Mr. Whitefield— Visit to Boston-
  Success of his ministry in New England, and in other places.


   Having, in the preceding chapter, given some ac-
count of the Founder of this literary institution, let us
now attend to the character of some of its principal
pupils.   The surest criterion by which to judge of the
character of any school, is to observe the attainments
and habits of those educated in it. And, judging by
this rule, a very high place must be assigned to the
Log College, notwithstanding its diminutive and mean
external appearance. And what was before said should
be remembered, that this was the first seminary in
which young men were trained for the gospel ministry
within the limits of the Presbyterian Church.      Before
this school was opened, if a young man wished to be-
come a minister in the Presbyterian Church, he must
either repair to one of the New England colleges or go
to Europe.    It is morally certain, therefore, that few,
if any, of those who were brought forward to the work
could ever have reached the ministry had it not been
for this school.    Accordingly we find that, for a con-
siderable time, nearly all the ministers composing the
Synod were either from Great Britain, Ireland, or New
England, except those who proceeded from this school.
And of what character and abilities these were, we shall
soon  see.  The first on the list of students in this
school was, no doubt, Mr. Tennent's eldest son, Gil-
bert.     For though he had finished his education before
        (24)
           THE REV. GILBERT TEXNENT.                 25

the Log College was built, yet ho received no other
education than what ho gained under the tuition of his
father ; and may, therefore, without impropriety be
classed among the pupils of the institution.
   Gilbert Tennent, the eldest son of the Rev. William
Tennent, sen., was born in the county of Armagh,
Ireland, April 5, in the year 1703, and was, therefore,
thirteen or fourteen years of age when his father emi-
grated to this country.     In setting up this school, no
doubt, the father had a regard to the education of his
four sons.    Men who have themselves profited by edu-
cation, and have become learned, cannot but feel a
lively interest in the education of their children ; and
this motive has had its influence in the institution of
numerous classical schools in this country besides the
Log College. Judging by the result, however, all
have reason to conclude, that in the mind of this good
man the education of his sons was viewed as subordi-
nate to the prosperity of the Church ; for every one
of them became a minister of the gospel, and some of
them ranked among the most distinguished who have
ever laboured in the Presbyterian Church.
   Gilbert Tennent, as has been remarked, received his
education under the paternal roof before this school
was opened, for at this time he was twenty-one or
twenty-two years of age, and was soon able to be an
assistant to his father in teaching the other students.
And when we consider the eminence to which he rose
as a preacher, and as a writer, we need no other proof
of the talents and skill of his reverend tutor.
   Gilbert Tennent's first religious impressions of any
permanency, were experienced when he was about
fourteen years of age.    His serious concern about his/
salvation continued for several years before his mind
was established in comfort and peace. During this
period he was often in great agony of spirit, until at
last it pleased God to give him " the light of the know-
ledge of his glory in the face of Jesus Christ."   While
he remained in the anxious state of mind which has
       3
2G              THE LOG COLLEGE.
been referred to, besides his other studies, he pursued
a course of theological reading but living under the
                                  ;


habitual impression that his spiritual condition was
not good, he durst not think of entering the holy
ministry.    He therefore commenced the study of me-
dicine, which he prosecuted for the space of a year.
But about this time it pleased God to reveal himself to
him with so much clearness and comfort, that all his
doubts and sorrows and fears were dispelled, and the
Sun of Righteousness arose upon him with healing
under his wings. And no sooner was he satisfied of
his saving interest in Christ, than he felt himself called
to seek the ministry, which he had before been deterred
from thinking of. And here it may be proper to re-
mark, that often when God intends a man for eminent
usefulness in the ministry, he leads him through deep
waters, and causes him to drink freely of the cup of
spiritual sorrow, that he may be prepared, by a long
course of afflictive experiences, to sympathize with
tempted and desponding believers and may learn how
                                      ;


to administer to them that consolation by which his own
heart was at last comforted.     Of this, religious biogra-
phy furnishes many instructive examples. After due
preparation and study, Mr. Gilbert Tennent presented
himself as a candidate to the Presbytery of Philadelphia,
of which his father was a member.      Having passed the
usual trials before the Presbytery to their great appro-
bation, he received a license to preach in May, 1726.
This was the very year in which the Log College was
opened and as we learn from the documents to which we
        ;


have had access that he was an usher, or assistant to his
father in the school, it seems altogether probable that
he continued with his father in the school for one year
at least   for by the Presbyterial Records it appears
            ;


that he was not ordained and settled as a pastor until
the autumn of the year 1727.      This, then, is the only
period in which he could have been a tutor in the Log
College ; for it was not in existence until 1726, and
after he was ordained he was the regular pastor of an
         THE K E V. G I L     15   E K T T E N N E N T.   27

important church in another state for he was called
                                            ;


to take charge of the Presbyterian congregation in tiie
city of New Brunswick, New Jersey.       Before Gilbert
Tennent settled at New Brunswick, he preached seve-
ral Sabbaths in New Castle, on the Delaware, and re-
ceived a call from the Presbyterian congregation in
that place ; which, however, he did not accept.
   From his first entrance on the public work of the
ministry, the preaching of Gilbert Tennent was very
popular and attractive, with all classes of hearers. He
possessed uncommon advantages as a preacher.         In
person, he Avas taller than the common stature, and
well proportioned in every respect.      His aspect was
grave and venerable, and his address prepossessing.
His voice was clear and commandinsi;, and his manner
in the pulpit was exceedingly earnest and impressive.
His reasoning powers, also, were strong, and his lan-
guage often nervous, and, indeed, sublime. No one
could hear him without being convinced that he was
deeply in earnest.  His style was copious, and some-
times elegant.  Indeed, in the vigour of his age, few
preachers could equal him.
   In the sermon preached at the funeral of ]\Ir. Ten-
nent, by Dr. Finlcy, he describes his character, as fol-
lows : " In his manners, at first view, he seemed distant
and reserved; yet, upon nearer acquaintance, he was
ever found affable, condescending, and communicative.
And what greatly endeared his conversation was, an
openness and undisguised honesty         at the greatest
                                                ;


remove from    artifice and dissimulation, which were
the abhorrence of his soul while he lived.     Besides, he
was tender, loving, and compassionate kind and agree-
                                                    ;


able in every relation an assured friend to such as he
                          ;


esteemed worthy of his regards; and a common patron
to all whom he apprehended were injured or distressed.
Hewas of a truly public spirit, and' seemed to feel the
various cases of mankind in general but sensibly par-
                                                ;

took of all the good or ill that befell his country.   He
needed no other motive to exert himself, than only to
        28              THELOGCOLLEGB.
   be persuaded that the matter in question was an im-
   portant public good; and in such cases he was much
   regarded, not only because of his known integrity, but
   his generous and catholic disposition.  For although
   he was a great lover of truth, and very zealous for its
   propagation yet, he was so far above a narrow, party
                    ;


   spirit, that he loved and honored all who seemed to
   have 'the root of the matter in them,' and made it
   their business to promote the essentials of religion,
   though they were, in various points, opposed to his
   own sentiments. He was, moreover, an example of
[/ great fortitude and unshaken resolution.     Whatever
   appeared to him subservient to the advancement of the
   Redeemer's kingdom, the salvation of souls, or the
   common good of mankind, he pursued with spirit and        ;


   what he did, he did with his might. If the end seemed
   to be attainable, great obstructions and difficulties in
   the way were so far from dispiriting, that they ani-
   jnated him in his efforts: nor wovild he give up the
   point while one glimpse of hope remained.    Hence, he
   accomplished many important matters which one less
   determined and enterprising, would presently have
   relinquished as desperate. He would go through honour
                                                          ;'
   and dishonour, through evil report and good report
                                  '


   and though he had sensibility with respect to his cha-
        racter as well as other       men;   yet, if preserving   it,

        seemed at any time      to require the omission of duty,
    ,   or sinful compliances, he readily determined to expose
^       himself to all risks and if adhering to the will of God
                            ;


        should be accounted 'vile,' he resolved that he would
        be 'yet more vile.'
             "A great part of his life was a scene of unremitted
        labour. He studied hard, travelled much, and preached
        often, while his health and other circumstances permit-
        ted.   He was 'instant in season and out of season:'
        always about his Master's business.       They who have
        journeyed or been often with him hi company, could
        not but observe his constant endeavours to do good by
        his conversation ; to introduce some convincing or edify-
          THE REV. aiL13ERT TENNENT.                   29

ing topics; and his Avatching for proper opportunities
for speaking for God.       And very faithful was he in
warning sinners of their danger, and persuading tliem
to seek salvation in earnest.      Thus, he showed how
much religion was his element, and promoting it the
delightful business of his life. How benevolent towards
mankind he was, and how precious immortal souls
were in his esteem, Avas evident from this, that every
advantage accruing to them he reckoned clear gain to
himself; nor were they 'who divide the spoil,' ever
more joyful than I have known him to be, on occasion
of the hopeful conversion of sinners, wdiether by his
own, or the ministry of others. And often has his
'
  soul Avept in secret places for the pride' and obstinacy
of those who refused to be reclaimed.
    "His great reading, Avith his various and long ex-
perience of the Avorkings of both grace and corruption
in the heart, made him a wise and skilful casuist, Avho
could resolve perplexing exercises of mind Avith clear-
ness, [and enabled] him to comfort with those consola-
tions, AAherewith he in like cases had been comforted
of God.
   " He Avas a faithful attendant on the judicatories of
the church, as Avas natural for one so anxiously con-
cerned for the interest of religion, as he Avas. And
having observed the eifects of a lax and negligent govern-
ment in some churches, he became a more strenuous
asserter of due   and strict discipline.   But above all
other things, the purity of the ministry was his care
and, therefore, at the hazard of the displeasure of
many, and in the face of reproach, he zealously urged
every scriptural method by Avhich carnal and earthly-
minded men might be kept from entering it, and men
of piety and zeal, as Avell as learning, introduced.
   "As Mr. Tennent's preaching Avas very alarming
and aAvakening to careless sinners, so it was much
blessed to this end, Avherever he preached.       And it
was not only rendered eflfectual in producing convic-
tion of sin, and exciting desires to flee from the wrath
          3*
    30             TIIELOGCOLLEGE.
    to come, but also to comfort mourners in Zion, and to
    encourage the timid and self-diffident.    The atoning
    blood of the Redeemer, that only sovereign balsam,
    was applied to their recent or festering wounds. For
    while, at one time, when he thundered the terrors of
    the law, the heavens seemed to gather blackness, and
    a tempest of wrath appeared ready to be hurled on the
    heads of the guilty ; at other times, when he exhibited
    the riches of the grace and provisions of the gospel,
    the heavens seemed to smile, the clouds were dispelled,
    and the sky became serene. The almighty God Avas
    shown to be their refuge, and underneath were the
    everlasting arms. Then his exhilarating words dropped
    upon them as the dew."
      The preceding full length        portrait   is,   with some
    slight alterations in the language, from the pen of one
    well qualified to judge in such matters, and who, by a
    long and intimate acquaintance, had the best oppor-
    tunities of knowing the true character of the man
    which he undertakes to describe. The Rev. Dr. Fin-
    ley, President of New Jersey College, the author of
    the foregoing sketch, was himself one of the alumni of
    the Log College.     It is possible, however, that the
    cordial friendship which he had long cherished for
    Gilbert Tennent, and the early admiration which he
    felt for his talents     and virtues, might insensibly lead
    him to give rather too high a colouring to the portrait-
    ure which he has delineated.    One thing is apparent
    to all who attentively consider what Dr. Finley has
    written, that, however just the prominent traits may
    be, the shading which  more or less belongs to every
X human  character
  Tennent had     his
                      wanting.
                        is        Undoubtedly, Gilbert
                   imperfections, and they were some-
    times sufficiently visible. But, on the whole, it must
    be confessed, that he was a very eminent minister of
    Jesus Christ, and was made the instrument of perform-
    ing a great work in his day.     His memory ought to
    be precious in the Presbyterian chui'ch.    Dr. Finley
    says, " that the seals of his ministry in New Bruns-
            THE KEV. GILDEKT TENNENT.                           31

^Yic•k atul parts adjacent, where he first exercised his

ministry, were numerous.      Many have I known, in
those and other parts where he only preached occa-
sionally,whose piety, was unquestioned, who owned
him for their spiritual father; and many have I heard
of in diftcrent places*."
   Thouf;h Dr. Finley's description of the character of
Gilbert Tennent is full, it will be satisfactory to have
the testimony of some other distinguished persons re-
specting him.     The Rev. Mr. Prince, a pious and
learned minister of Boston, speaks of Mr. Tennent in
the following terms     " In private conversation I found
                         :



him to be a man of considerable parts and learning,
free,   gentle,    and       condescending.       From   his   own
various experience, his reading the most eminent
writers on experimental divinity, as well as the Scrip-
tures, and from his conversing with many who had
been awakened by his ministry in Ncav Jersey, he
seemed to have as deep an acquaintance with the ex-
perimental part of religion as any I have conversed
with.   And his preaching Avas as searching and rousing
as ever I heard."        "He seemed to have such a lively
vicAv of the divine Majesty        —of the    spirituality, purity,
cxtensiveness, and strictness of the law, with his glori-
ous holiness, and displeasure at sin his. justice, truth,
                                              ;


and power     in   punishing the damned, that the vei"y
terrors of God seemed to rise in his mind afresh, when
he displayed and brandished them in the eyes of um-e-
conciled sinners."           And the same writer speaks of his
remarkable discrimination and skill in detecting hypo- *^
crites, " and laying open their many vain and secret
refuges, counterfeit resemblances, their delusive hopes,
their utter impotence,          and impending danger of de-
struction."
   It will be gratifying to learn what Mr. Whitefield's ^
opinion was of the subject of this memoir.    And this
we have given very freely and fully, in his Journal, to
which reference has already been made.       "Nov. lo,
[1739.] Left Trenton about six in the morning, had
32             THE LOG COLLEGE.
a sweet and pleasant journey, and reached Brunswick,
about thirty miles distant, about one o'clock.     Here
we were much refreshed with the company of Mr. Gil-
bert Tennent, an eminent disscntinc^ minister, about
forty years of age, son to that good old man who came
to see me on Saturday, at Philadelphia.     God, I find,
has been pleased greatly to bless his labours.  He and
his associates are now the burning and shining lights of
this part of America.    He recounted to me many re-
markable effusions of the blessed Spirit, which have
been sent down among them. And one may judge of
their being true  and faithful soldiers of Jesus Christ,
because they are every where spoken evil of, by natural
men. The devil and carnal ministers rage horribly
against them.    Several pious souls came to see me at
his house, with whom I took sweet counsel.''     " Wed-
nesday, Nov. 14.    Set out early from Brunswick, with
my dear fellow-travellers, and my worthy brother and
fellow-labourer, Mr. Tennent.    As we passed along,
we spent our time most agreeably in telling what God
had done for our souls."
   Upon their arrival at New York, Mr. Whitefield goes
on to say, " I Avcnt to the meeting house to hear Mr.
Gilbert Tennent preach, and never before heard I such
a searching sermon.    He went to the bottom, indeed,
and did not daub with untempered mortar. He con-
vinced me more and more, that we can preach the
gospel of Christ no further than we have experienced
the power of it in our own hearts.   Being deeply con-
victed of sin, and being from time to time driven from
his false bottom and dependencies by God's Holy Spirit,
at his first conversion, he has learned experimentally
to dissect the heart of the natural man.    Hypocrites
must either soon be converted or enraged at his preach-
ing.   He is a ' son of thunder,' and does not regard
the face of man.    He is deeply sensible of the dead-
ness and formality of the Christian chui'ch, in these
parts, and has given noble testimonies against it."
     Ahigher testimony, and from higher authority could
         THE llEV. (JILBEKT TENNENT.                  33

not bo given, upon earth.     It is doubtful Avhether Mr.
"NVhitefield lias ever expressed so high an opinion of
any other preacher of any denomination. Indeed, it
is probable, that he never met with a man of a more
perfectly congenial spirit with his own.   As Mr. White-
field was doubtless honoured to be the instrument of
tlie conversion of more souls than any other preacher
of his age, or perhaps of any age since that of the
aposile Paul ; so Mr. Tenncnt, among orthodox
preachers, undoubtedly deserves to be placed next to
him, both in the alnnidance of his labours and the
wonderful success which attended his ministry.
   When in the year 1740, Mr. Whitefield returned
from Boston, he persuaded and urged Mr. Gilbert
Tennent, to make a preaching tour through New Eng-
land as far as Boston, to water the good seed which
he had there sown by his preaching on his late visit.
At that time, there was but little intercourse between
the middle and eastern colonies and no ecclesiastical
                                  ;


connection between the Presbyterian and Congrega-
tional churches.    Mr. Whitefield's preaching, attended
by the mighty power of God, not only was the means
of the conviction and conversion of many of his hearers
but he also excited a host of enemies, who pursued him
with unrelenting hostility  ;   and among his opposcrs
were reckoned, both in this country and in Great Bri-
tain, the majority of the clergy and of professors of
religion.    Thus verifying the words of our Lord, " If
they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you
if they have kept my sayings they will keep yours
also."  Mr. Tennent must have been inflamed with a
very ardent zeal, situated as he was, the pastor of a
church, and the father of a family, to set oft" in the
depth of winter to preach to a strange people, among
whom he probably had not a single acquaintance, either
among the clergy or the laity.    But invincible resolu-
tion was a prominent trait in his character.       Mr.
Whitefield made no journeys without several attendants
men who cheerfully ministered unto him, as did Timo-
34             T II   ELOG COLLEGE.
thy, and Lukx3,  and Silas, and Mark, and others, to
Paul.   But Mr. Tenncnt appears to have gone on this
self-denymg and evangelical tour alone.    He -was in-
fluenced by no curiosity to see a country not before
visited  nor could he have had any secular motive to
          ;


induce him to perform so laborious a service as that in
which he now engaged.
   As Mr. Whitefield's preaching had enkindled a con-
siderable flame in Boston, Mr. Tennent directed his
coiu-seimmediately to that city, where he arrived on
the 13th of December, 1740; and here he continued
for nearly three months, preaching almost every day,
with extraordinary power and success.    There were,
however, there, many Avho were ready to welcome him
and several of the excellent ministers of the town cor-
dially received this zealous preacher, and opened their
pulpits   —
          and, indeed, some of them gave them up to
him, while he continued in the place.      Among those
who received him joyfully was the Rev. INIr. Prince,
the author of " The Christian History," from whose
pen we are favoured with an account of Mr. Tennent's
manner of preaching, during his ministry in Boston.
"It was," says he, "both terrible and searching. It
was for matter, justly terrible, as he, according to the
inspired oracles, exhibited the dreadful holiness, jus-
tice, law-threatenings, truth, poAver, and majesty of
God, and his anger with rebellious, impenitent, and
Christless sinners    {lie awful danger they w^ere in
                      :


every moment of being struck down to hell, and damned
forever, Avith the amazing miseries of that place of tor-
ment.    By his arousing and scriptural preaching, deep
and pungent convictions were wrought in the minds of
many hundreds of persons in that town and the same
                                         ;


effect was produced in several scores, in the neighbour-
ing congregations.    And now was such a time as we
never kncAv.  The Rev. Mr. Cooper was wont to say,
that more came to him in one week, in deep concern,
than in the whole twenty-four years of his preceding
ministry.  I can say also the same, as to the numbers
         THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                    35

\vlio repaired to me."    "By a letter of Mr. Cooper,
cue of the evangelical ministers of Boston, to a friend
in Scotland, it appears he had had about six hundred
different persons to visit him on the concerns of their
souls, in three months' time.  And Mr. Webb, another
of the pious Boston ministers, informs me, he has had,
in the same space, above a thousand."
   But it >vill be satisfactory to hear Mr. Tennent's
own account of this visit, which is found in a letter
addressed to Mr. Whitefield, by whose urgent entreaty
he was persuaded to undertake the journey.         This
letter has been preserved in that excellent book, " Gil-
lies' Historical Collections,'' of which Ave are glad to
learn a new edition has been recently published in
Scotland.
                           —
   " Very dear brother, In my return home, I have
been preaching daily ; ordinarily, three times a day,
and sometimes oftener and through pure grace, I have
                       :


met with success much exceeding my expectations. In
the town of Boston there were many hundreds, if not
thousands, as some have judged, under soul-concern.
"When I left the place, many cliildren were deeply af-
fected about their souls, and several had received con-
solation.   Some aged persons in church communion,
and some open opposers were convinced. Divers of
young and middle aged were converted, and several
negroes.    The concern was rather more general at
Charlestown.     Multitudes were awakened, and several
had received great consolation     ;   esijccially among
the young people, children, and negroes.         In Cam-
bridge, also, in the town and in the college, the shaking
among the dry bones was general, and several of the
students have received consolation." He then proceeds
to name more than twenty towns to which the revival
had extended and in most of Avhich he had preached
              ;


on his return home. " In New Haven," says he, "the
concern was general, both in the college and in the
town.   About thirty students came on foot, ten miles,
to hear the word of God.  And at Milford, the conceru
     36               THE LOG COLLEGE.
     vas   general.   I believe,   by a moderate       calculation,
 '^ divers  thousands have been awakened.      Glory to God
    on high   !  I thank you, sir, that you did excite me to
    this journey.    I have had good information, that on
    Long Island, God has blessed my poor labours on my
    passage to New England.        The work of God spreads
    more and more. My brother "William has had remarkable
    success this winter at Burlington.    Mr. John Cross has
    had remarkable success at Staten Island and manv,
                                                   ;


    I hear, have been awakened by the labours of Mr.
    Robinson, in Kew York government.          Mr. Mills has
    had remarkable success in Connecticut, particularly
    at New Haven.       And I hear that Mr. Blair has had
    remarkable success in Pennsyh^ania."
        On the subject of this great rexdval, which extended
    from Massachusetts to Georgia, the ministers of the
    Synod were greatly divided. For wliile some approved
    the work, and were principal instruments in promoting
    it, a majority considered it an ebullition of enthusiasm

    which tended neither to the glory of God, nor to the
    real benefit of immortal souls'; and concerning Mr.
    Whitefield and his preaching, there was an entire dis-
    sension.    This difi'erence, relating to the great and
    vital interests of religion, produced exasperation.  The
    friends of the re^dval considered all who opposed it as
    setting themselves in opposition to a glorious work of
    God's grace, and they could not but view all who openly
    spoke against the revival, or opposed it in any way, to
 u/ be the enemies of God.       Hence, they too hastily took
    up the opinion that all those ministers Avho disapproved
    the work were unconverted men that they were mere
                                        ;


    formalists, and kncAV nothing of the vital power of re-
    ligion, but trusted to a mere profession of orthodoxy,
    and that if in words they did not deny the truths of
     God, they did in fact and though they might acknow-
                            :


    ledge the truth in theory, it was with them a " dead
     orthodoxy," which they held in unrighteousness.     On
y/   the other hand, the opposers of the re\'ival blamed the
     kind of preaching which the revivalists adopted ; espe-
           THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                      37

 cially the dwelling so much on the terrors of the law,
 and the torments of the damned. They charged the
 leaders in the revival with encouraging enthusiastic
 raptures, and making religion to consist too much in
 strong emotion and violent excitement, attended often
 with bodily affections. They were also greatly offended
 with the harsh, uncharitable spirit with wliich they
 were denounced and misrepresented by the preachers
 on the other side and their opposition to no one, unless
                   ;


 Mr. Whitefield be an exception, was greater than to
 Mr. Gilbert Tennent. Indeed, all must acknowledge,
 that among the friends and promoters of the revival
 he stood pre-eminent and in the harshness of his cen-
                        ;


 sures, and the severity of his denunciation, he went
 far before all his brethren. It cannot be doubted that
 before the commencement of this extraordinary revival
 of religion, the Presbyterian church in America, was in
 a most deplorable state of deadness and formality and;


 that the necessity of a change of heart was very little in-
 culcated from the pulpit, or understood by the people.
 Here it may be remarked, that the founder of the Log
 College and all the pupils of that school were warm
 friends of the revival, and exerted themselves with all
/eir might to promote the good work.
    In all great revivals, where the people are under
 strong excitement, there Avill be some things which the
 judicious must regret    and, no doubt, there were many
                            ;


 such things in this great and extensive awakening ; but
 it was a dangerous mistake to repudiate the whole work

 on account of some irregularities.
                        CHAPTER IV.

                                           —
Rev. Gilbert Tennent's contest with the Synod Severity of his censures
                                                            —
  New Brunswick Presbytery protest against the Syuod's act Violate
                                            —
  it— Are excluded irregularly from the Synod Form a separate body
  Judgment of their conduct.

   AYe come now to a period of Gilbert Tennent's life,
in which he was called to act a very conspicuous part
in the affairs of the Presbyterian church.       great      A
schivsm took place in the Synod, in bringing about
which, it must be admitted, he had his full share.  It
took place, indeed, by the expulsion of himself, and
the other members of the New Brunswick Presbytery,
from the Synod; but he had provoked his oj^ponents
by one of the most severely abusive sermons which
was ever penned, called " The Nottingham Sermon,"
because    it   was preached at that place. In the pro-
tests which he and     Mr. Samuel Blair presented to the
Synod, in 1740, the majority of the members of the
Synod were exhibited in a very unenviable- light. Mr.
Gilbert Tennent felt himself called in providence to
attempt to arouse the Presbyterian church from its
profound sleep of carnal security, and to bring about
a reformation in the body; but the majority of the
clergy were opposed to his measures, and disparaged
what had already been done. He seems, therefore, to
have considered them as the enemies of the spiritual
kingdom of Christ and that it was his duty, in imita-
                        ;


tion of Christ and the ancient prophets, in the plainest
and most solemn manner, to denounce and expose theii'
hypocrisy, as did our Lord that of the Pharisees. But
here he made a grand mistake.      He could not read
the hearts of his opponents, and, therefore, had no
         (38)
            THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                    39

autliovlty to pronounce a sentence of condemnation on
tlu'in.    lie should have rcmoniboivd that precept of
our Lord,     "Judge not tliat ye be not judged."         A
difference of opinion from him respecting the true na-
ture of the revival, and concerning Mr. Whitofield's
character, furnished no sufficient ground for him to
censure and denounce them as he did; and, especially,
as a part of them, at least, were excellent men, and
sound and judicious theologians. They were not the
enemies of vital godliness, but were opposed to what
they apprehended to be spurious religion.     We may
now see that they erred in their judgment, and pur-
sued a course which was very injurious to the people
under their care    and that they committed a great
                      ;


fault in opposing a glorious work of God on account
of some irregularities which accompanied it.    One of
the greatest causes of complaint against Mr. Gilbert
Tennent and his " New-light " brethren was, that in
violation of order and propriety, they passed beyond
the bounds of their own Presbytery, and intruded into
congregations under the care of other ministers.  This
these brethren attempted to justify by the sound
maxim, employed by the apostles, when forbidden to
preach by the Jewish rulers, " that we should obey
God rather than men." But it may well be doubted,
whether, in the circumstances in which they were
placed, the maxim was applicable.   The ministers into
whose congregations they intruded, belonged to the
same Synod with themselves, and had as good a right
to judge what was right and expedient, as the " New
Side '' ministers.
     We think, therefore, that Mr. Tennent was much
to be blamed for the course which he pursued in this
controversy with the Synod especially, in the harsh-
                                  ;


ness, censoriousness, and bitterness which he mani-
fested towards them; particularly, in the sermon before
mentioned     ;   and that   his course can   by no means be
justified.    He iloes, indeed, appear in a very unamiable
light,    and as exceedingly deficient in the meekness and
40             TnELOGCOLLEGE.
charity of the gospel, in this whole controversy.     lie,
doubtless, believed. that he was doing God service, and
that duty required him to pursue the course and mani-
fest the spirit which he did.    After the separation had
taken place, and the heat of the controversy had
cooled, he seems to have been sensible that he had not
done justice to the majority of the Synod; for he
wrote and published a large pamphlet called " The
Pacificator," in which he strongly pleads for peace,
and a re-union of the separated parts of the Presby-
terian Church.      This desirable event was, after a
division which lasted seventeen years, and after long
negotiation, accomplished; and Mr. Gilbert Tennent
entered cordially into the measure.        "Whatever mis-
takes he fell into arose from error of judgment, in
regard to duty.      He was, doubtless, actuated by a
sincere and glowing zeal for the honour of the Re-
deemer, and the salvation of souls.      Like the sun, he
was a burning and a shining light but like that lumi-
                                    ;


nary, had some dark spots, which, in some measure,
marred the beauty and symmetry of his otherwise
 estimable character.    His natural disposition appears
 to have been severe and uncompromising; and he
gave strong evidence of being very tenacious of all
 his opinions; and not very tolerant of those who dis-
 sented from his views, as appears by the controversy
 which he had with the Rev. Mr. Cowell, of Trenton,
 and which ho brought before the Synod. But with
 all his faults he was an extraordinary man, raised up
 by Providence to accomplish a great work. We, of
 the Presbyterian Church, are more indebted to the
 men of the Log College for our evangelical views, and
 for our revivals of religion, than we are aware of. By
 their exertions, and the blessing of God on their preach-
 ing, a new spirit was infused into the Presbyterian
 body ; and their views and sentiments respecting ex-
 perimental religion, have prevailed more and more;
 until at last opposition to genuine revivals of religion
 is almost unknown in our church.       It is not my pur-
         THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                         41

pose to enter into       tlic   ecclesiastical transactions in
which Mr. Tcnncnt acted an important part, any fur-
ther than is necessary to form a judgment of his Chris-
tian and ministerial character.    Tlicy who desire to
see a lucid view of the ecclesiastical transactions of
that period, are referred to Dr. Hodge's "Constitu-
tional History of the Presbyterian Church;" or they
may go to the fountain head, by consulting the " Re-
cords of the Transactions of the Synod," recently
given to the public by the Presbyterian Board of Pub-
lication.
   We have seen that a great schism was produced in
the   Presbyterian  body, by a difference of opinion
among        ministers of the Synod, respecting the
            the
great revival which pervaded many of the churches.
But though this was the pi-oximate cause of the divi-
sion, by those who attentively consider the history of
that time, and especially the "Records" of the Synod
itself, it will   be seen that this event Avas actually pro-
duced by the Log College. At first view, this will
seem very improbable, but when all the documents are
read, and all the circumstances of the church weighed
and compared, it will appear exceedingly probable
that the erection of this school of the prophets was,
innocently, the cause of the breach which took place
in 1741.   Here it will be necessary to enter somewhat
minutely into a consideration of the condition of the
church prior to the commencement of the revival.            A
liberal education was, from the beginning, considered
an indispensable qualification for the gospel ministry
in the Presbyterian Church.     The usual evidence of
having received such an education was a diploma from
some college or university, in Europe or America.
The Presbyterian ministers, before the erection of the
Log College, had, nearly all, received such an educa-
tion.  We know of but one exception, and that was
Mr. Evans, whose case has already been mentioned.
There existed no college in any of the middle states
where young men seeking the ministry, could obtain
    42              TIIELOGCOLLEGE.
    the requisite learning.  Until this school was insti-
    tuted, no   young man could enter the Presbyterian
    ministry, without going to Scotland or NeAV England
    for his education ;and this amounted pretty nearly to
    closing   the door against all candidates Avho were
    brought up in the Presbyterian Church ; for very few
•
    in those days could bear the expense of acquiring a
    liberal education, by going to any college or university
    on this or the other side of the Atlantic. The church,
    therefore, had to depend for a supply of ministers on
    emigration from Scotland, Ireland, or New England.
    Most of those who came to settle in the Presbyterian
    Church, came from Ireland ; except that those Pres-
    byteries which bordered on New England, received
    a supply of ministers from that region.       It must be
    evident at once, that this condition of the church was
    very unfavourable to her prosperity for often, those
                                          ;


    who came across the ocean, were not men of the best
    character.    They were often mere adventurers, and
    sometimes had crossed the Atlantic to escape from the
    censure incurred by their misconduct and it was ex-
                                              ;


    ceedingly difficult in those days, to ascertain the true
    character of a foreigner coming here as a minister of
    the gospel for though such men commonly exhibited
                ;


    ample testimonials from abroad, too often those Avere
    forged.    Several instances of this very thing occurred.
    As the ministers who came in from New England were
    allbrought up Congregationalists, and had habits and
    customs not congenial with those of the Scottish Pres-
    byterians, their accession to the body had a tendency
    to produce confusion and strife.   The sons of the pil-
    grims and the descendants of Scottish Presbyterians,
    though holding substantially the same creed, have
    never readily amalgamated into one uniform mass, but
    the habits and prejudices of each have been preserved,
    and kept the people distinct for several generations,
    though living contiguously to each other.        There
    seemed, therefore, to be an urgent necessity for some
    seminary to be erected within the limits of the Pres-
        THE REV. GILBERT T E N N E N T.                43

byterian Church, where young men might be educated
for the ministry.     It is indeed wonderful that the
Synod had not paid earlier attention to this subject,
as being essential to the prosperity of the church.
But as far as appears, no classical school had bceii
erected in any part of the Synod, until the Rev. Wil-
                                                          •
liam Tennent connected himself with the Presbyterian
Church, and set up a school at his own door, in Ne-
shaminy. It is probaljlc that Mr. Gilbert Tennent was
the first candidate licensed in the Presbyterian Church,
who was educated Avithin its limits. As he was thir-
teen or fourteen years of age, when his- father arrived,
it is probable that his classical education was com-

menced before he left Ireland though the principal
                                 ;


part of his education must have been acquired here
and no doubt, under the paternal roof. Although we
have connected Mr. Gilbert Tennent with the Log Col-
lege, it must be in the character of a teacher, rather
than a student; for in the very year in which his
father removed to Neshaminy, he was licensed to
 preach.    This was the year 1726.
   Though Gilbert Tennent had received no diploma
from any college, yet he passed his trials before the
mother Presbytery of Philadelphia, with great credit
to himself, and much to the satisfaction of the Presby-
tery.   It was now seen that young men could be well
prepared for the ministry at home, without going to
distant colleges. As Mr. William Tennent, the father,
had been, as far as is known, the sole instructor of his
son, who as soon as licensed, attracted public atten-
tion, and was seen to be an able preacher, the conclu-
sion was easily drawn, that he would be an excellent
person to train up young men for the ministry. But
though the thing appeared thus to many plain and
                                                            ^
pious people, others were apprehensive, that by edu-
cating young men in this way, the literary qualifications
of candidates would necessarily be greatly diminished.
The school, however, went on prosperously, and a
number of young men who had the ministry in view,
44             T II E   L   G C   L L E G E.

resorted to the Log College to pursue their education
and here, they were not only taught the classics, but
studied divinity also   so that this institution was a
                        ;


theological seminary, as well as a college. How many
years they were occupied with these studies does not
appear; but a number of persons educated in this
school were licensed by the Presbyteries, after under-
going such trials as were usually prescribed to candi-
dates in Scotland and Ireland.    Some of them, as Ave
shall see, became eminent in the church, and were
much distinguished as powerful and evangelical preach-
ers.   Still the impression existed, and grew stronger,
that this course of instruction was not sufficient.   To
men educated in the universities of Europe, furnished
with so many professors, and other advantages, it
seemed preposterous to suppose that a man could
acquire adequate learning for the ministry in this little
paltry log cabin ; and instructed, principally, by ojie
teacher.   They began, therefore, in the Synod, to
talk of establishing a Synodical school, and to express
dissatisfaction with the course of study in the Log
College, as it was contemptuously called.          None
doubted of old Mr. Tennent's classical scholarship      ;


but it was believed that his proficiency in the arts and
sciences was by no means equal to his classical learn-
ing.   As young men Avere still entering the church
from this school, the Synod adopted a rule, that no
Presbytery should license any young man until he had
passed an examination on his literary course before a
committee of Synod.      Two large committees, one for
the northern part of the Synod, and the other for the
south, were appointed, before whom young men were
to appear and submit to an examination.        This rule
gave great dissatisfaction to the Tennents and their
friends for they perceived, at once, that this rule was
        ;


intended to bear on the students of the Log College,
and they believed it to be a high-handed measm-e,
entirely inconsistent with the rights of Presbyteries,
who, as they had the power of ordaining ministers,
          THE REV. CilLBERT TENNENT.                      4o

oucrht to possess the power of judging
                                           of their qualifi-
caSons.     What rendered the measure more odious to
                                              a Presbytery
them, they had just succeeded in getting
             New   Jersey,  which   included   most of the
set off, in
friends of the Log College.       Their object in getting
                                        confessed to Mr.
this Presbytery erected, as they
Whitefield, was, that they might license
                                                such young
                        properly  qualified  for  the oflice
men as they deemed
               opinion,  fervent  piety  was  the   first and
and, in  their
                                        believed   a classical
principal qualification. Though they
                        yet      seems   that  they    lightly
 education necessary,         it
                                                 other mem-
 esteemed some parts of learning, which the
 bers of the Synod thought requisite.
                                          While they were
         for being too lax in their demands
                                                 of a know-
blamed
                                                     charged
\c(\<reof literature and science, they seriously
                                                 to make a
the°majority of the Synod with neglectmg
                                               their candi-
thorou<^h examination into the piety of
       ^
dates.   On several occasions, Mr. Gilbert Tenncnt
                                                   obtained
brought this matter before the Synod, and
from°them some formal       resolutions,   m favour   of in-
          carefully into the  personal   piety  of the can-
quiring
 didates.
   When the order was passed, rendering it necessary
                                         committee     of the
 for candidates to appear before a
                                 and       friends entered
 Synod, Mr. Gilbert Tennent           his

 their protest against  the  regulation.   But to be more
                               measure,  which  divided the
 exact in regard to this first
 Synod into two     parties, it will be proper to observe,
                                                  was oc-
 that the regulation adopted in the year 1738,
                         from  the Presbytery  of Lewes,
 casioned by an overture
    which they say, " That this part of the world, where
 in
          ordered our lot, labours under grievous
                                                     dis-
 God has
                                                 universities,
 advantage for want of the opportunities of
                                                   useful
 and professors skilled in the several branches of
 learning; and that   many    students  from Europe   are
                                                         then-
 especiaUy cramped in prosecuting their studies ;
 parents removing to these colonies before
                                             they have
    opportunity of attending the college, after having
 an
                                              and that
 spent some years at the grammar school;
46             TnELOGCOLLEGE.
many persons, born in tliis country, groan under tlie
same pressure, whose circumstances are not able to
support them to spend a course of years in the Eu-
ropean or New Enghmd colleges, which discourages
much, and must be a detriment to our church, for we
know that natural parts, however great and promising,
for want of being well improved, must be marred in
their usefulness, and cannot be so extensively service-
able to the public ;   and that want paves the way for
ignorance, and this for a formidable train of sad con-
sequences. To prevent this evil, it is humbly proposed,
as a remedy, that every student, with approbation not
pursuing the usual courses, in some of the New En-
gland or European colleges approved by public autho-
rity, shall, before he be encouraged by any Presbytery
for the sacred Avork of the ministry, apply himself to
this Synod, and that they appoint a committee of their
members, yearly, whom they know to be well skilled
in the several branches of philosophy, divinity, and
the languages, to examine such students in this place,
and finding them well accomplished in these several
parts of learning, shall allow them a public testimony
from the Synod, which, till better provision be made,
will, in some measure, answer the design of taking a
degree in college.     And, for the encouragement of
students, let this be done without putting them to fui'-
ther expenses than attending. And let it be an objec-
tion against none where they have studied, or what
books ; but let all encouragement be only according to
merit, &c."      The Synod, by a great majority, ap-
proved the overture, and proceeded to appoint two
committees, the one for the region north of Philadel-
phia, and the other for the country south of that
city.
   It does not appear that any dissent or protest was
entered on the minutes at the time, but the next year
the Presbytery of New Brunswick sent up a remon-
strance.  The paper containing the objections to the
act of the Synod of the preceding yeai* is not on the
        THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                      47

records ; but the Synod, upon hearing it, agreed to
reconsider the subject, and after due deliberation,
resolved to substitute the foHowing instead of the act
complained of.     " It being tlie first article in our ex-
cellent Directory for the examination of the candidates
for the sacred ministry, that they be inquired of what
degrees they have taken in the university, &c.         And
it being oftentimes impracticable for us, in these remote

parts of the earth, to obtain an answer to these ques-
tions of those Avho propose themselves to examination,
many of our candidates not having enjoyed the advan-
tage of a university education, and it being our desire
to come to the nearest conformity to the incomparable
prescriptions of the Directory that our circumstances
will admit of, and after long deliberation of the most
proper expedients to comply with the intentions of the
Directory, where we cannot exactly fulfil the letter of
it:  the Synod agree and determine, that every person
who proposes himself to trial, as a candidate for the
ministry, and who has not a diploma, or the usual cer-
tificate from a European or New England university,
shall be examined by tbe whole Synod, or its commis-
sion, as to these preparatory studies, which we gene-
rally pass through at the college  ;  and if they find him
qualified, they shall give him a certificate, which sluill
he received by our respective Presbyteries as equiva-
lent to a diploma or certificate from the college, &c."
But this form of the act was no more acceptable to the
New Brunswick Presbytery than the former the next
                                                ;


day, therefore, they enteretl a protest against the said
act.    This protest was signed by the four Tennents,
Samuel Blair, and Eleazar Wales, ministers, and by
four elders.  The Synod, it appears, were determined
to bring the pupils of the Log College under their own
examination before they would suftor any more of them
to be received as members of the Synod, or to preach
as candidates in the churches.  The friends of this
institutionwere exceedingly averse to having their
young men exammcd by the Synod; either, because
48             T II   ELOO COLLEGE.
they were conscious that they would be found defective
in some of the branches usually pursued in the college
course; or, because they were of opinion that the major
part of the Synod were prejudiced against this humble
institution, and against all who were connected with it.
Probably both these considerations had their weight in
leading them to oppose so strenuously a measure which
to us seems reasonable and necessary, to guard the
ministry against the intrusion of unqualified candidates.
For it appears that this examination by the Synod
was not intended to interfere with the right of Pres-
byteries to examine their candidates, but to be a sub-
stitute for a dijjloma, which the Directory seemed to
require.    For when a young man presented his certifi-
cate to a Presbytery, if, upon examination, they were
not satisfied, they could reject him notwithstanding his
certificate.
   But the fact was, that the New Brunswick Presby-
tery had already committed themselves. At their very
first meeting, in August, 1738, they took on trial a
certain Mr. Rowland, one of the scholars of the Log
Colle<]i;e, in direct violation of the act of the Synod.

After the Synod had reconsidered the matter, and re-
enacted the same thing, in difierent words, this Pres-
bytery proceeded with the trials of JNIr. Rowland,
licensed him to preach the gospel, and, not long after-
wards, ordained him.       The Synod refused to recognize
Mr. Rowland as a member of their body; for, though
they did not deny that by the act of the Presbytery
he was a real minister yet, they alleged that they had
                        ;


a right to determine who should and who should not
become members of their own body. Henceforth, the
parties became much exasperated against each other.
The friends of tlie Log College saw that the act of the
Synotl was directed against that institution, for there
was no other school at that time in the bounds of the
Synod, where young men were trained for the minis-
try.     This was not all.    The act implied a reflection
on all those who had before entered the ministry from
            THE REV. aiLBERT TEXNENT.                 49

this school.      The majority of Synod were grievously
ofiFended, thatone of their Presbyteries, and one too
just created, should so disregard the authority of the
supreme judicatory of the church, as to act in open
defiance of an act formed after     much discussion and
deliberation in the Synod.
   One thing necessary to be known, in order to form
an impartial judgment respecting the dispute which
arose in the Synod, but which cannot at this distance
of time be accurately ascertained, is, what sort of edu-
cation was actually received at this famous institution.
Was it as solid and thorough as could be obtained
within the limits of the Presbyterian church ?    If so,
even if compared with that which was given in the
universities of Europe, it was in some parts defective,
this was no good reason why the institution should be
froAvned upon by the Synod.       Instead of this, they
ought to have recognized and cherished it, and should
have endeavoured to raise it higher, and to enlarge its
advantages.    As far as we have observed, this scliool,
although already it had produced a number of distin-
guished preachers, is never once mentioned in the
minutes of the Synod except in their letter to Presi-
                          ;


dent Clapp, of which further notice will be taken.    It
is true, that most of the members of Synod had en-
joyed the advantages of a university education in
Europe or New England; and it cannot be supposed''
that equal advantages could be had in the little log
cabin at Ncshaminy.       But it is a well known fact,
that men's eminence in learning does not always cor-
respond with the privileges enjoyed. If we compare
Gilbert Tennent, Samuel Blair, Samuel Finley, Wil-
liam Tennent, jr., and John Blair, with an equal num-
ber of their opposers, they cei-tainly will not sufl'er in
public opinion by the comparison.        One advantage
which they possessed who were educated in the Log
College, was, that the spirit of piety seems to have         ^
been nourished in that institution with assiduous care.
All, as far as we can learn, who proceeded from this
        5
60             T II   ELOG COLLEGE.
school,  were men of sound orthodoxy, evangelical
spirit, glowing zeal, and in labours very abundant.
They had, we have reason to believe, the teaching of
the Holy Spirit   ; and without the advantages which
others enjoyed, they became "burning and shining
lights."   They were the friends and promoters of revi-
vals of religion, which their censurers bitterly opposed.
Still, we do not justify their irregular and insubordi-
nate acts.    Gilbert Tennent and Samuel Blair were
                            —
men of invincible firmness a firmness bordering on
obstinacy.    They were the leaders in this warfare.
They saw a great harvest before them, and the Lord
seemed to attend their labours everywhere with a
blessing and they were led to think, that mere forms
          ;


of order and regulations of ecclesiastical bodies were
of trivial importance, compared with the advancement
of the Redeemer's kingdom, and the salvation of souls.
They felt, as did the apostles and first reformers, that
they were called to go everywhere preaching the gos-
pel, without regard to prescribed limits of Presbyteries
or congregations      especially, as they observed that
                      ;


many pastors neglected to inculcate on their hearers
the necessity of a change of heart, and that the people
were as really perishing for lack of knowledge, as they
were under Jewish or Popish instructers. They felt
themselves bound, therefore, to preach far and wide,
wherever the people would hear them and although
                                         ;


there Avas irregularity in this, judging by human and
ecclesiastical rules, yet I doubt not, that in the main
their zealous and exhausting labours have met with a
large reward.     Weak enthusiasts or fierce fanatics
may abuse the principle on which they acted but the
                                               ;


same thing occurred at the time of the blessed Refor-
mation from popery.       We must not neglect to do all
the good we can, because some may pervert our exam-
ple to sanction their own lawless proceedings.
   I cannot express how much the Presbyterian Church
in these United States is indebted to the labours of
this very corps, who studied successfully the sacred
         THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                   51

oracles in the    Log College ; or more probably, under
the beautiful groves which shaded the banks of the
Neshaminy,       There they studied, and there they
prayed, and there they were taught of God.
   But I do not mean to justify all that was done by
these zealous men.     As was admitted before, they did
not act towards their brethren in the ministry with
brotherly affection, and Christian meekness.     Gilbert
Tennent indulged himself in very unwarrantable lan-
guage in speaking of men clothed with the same office
as himself, and members of the same Synod.      Nothing
could, have justified his treatment of them, unless he
had been inspired to know that they were a set of
hypocrites ; or, unless their lives had been wicked, or
their faith heretical, none of which things were alleged
against them.
   But while it is admitted that ]\Ir. Gilbert Tennent
was a principal instrument in provoking a majority of
the Synod to exscind the New Brunswick Presbytery,
it does not appear that either he or his friends wished

to bring about a separation in the church.     Their ob-
ject was to produce a reformation, if possible, among
the ministers, and in the churches under the care of
the Synod ; though it must be acknowledged that their
zeal led them to make use of unjustifiable means to
accomplish the desired end.      It need not, therefore,
be a matter of surprise that Gilbert Tennent was among
the first to seek a reconciliation and re-union of the
parties.  To promote this object he wrote and pub-
lished a pamphlet, as was before said, entitled, " The
Pacificator," in which he reasons strongly in favour of
peace and union. Between the contending parties
there existed, really, no difierence on doctrinal points
except that the New Side were blamed for dwelling too
much on the terrors of the law, and insisting too
strongly on the necessity of legal conviction for sin.
On church government there was scarcely a shade of
difference.  The members of the New Brunswick Pres-
bytery were disposed to consider Presbyteries as the
52             THELOaCOLLEGE.
origin of ecclesiastical power; while the majority of
the Synod probably thought that all the power of the
church was concentrated in the Synod, then the su-
preme judicatory. The same difference of opinion still
exists in the Presbyterian Church, for while some are
of opinion that Synods and General Assemblies pos-
sess limited powers, defined by the constitution of the
church, and that all ecclesiastical power emanates
from the Presbyteries, which they consider the essential
body in our Church government ; there are others who
consider the Synod in no other light than a larger
Presbytery, and the General Assembly, as it were, a
universal Presbytery, possessing all the powers of the
inferior judicatories. Whichever of these be the more
correct theory of our Presbyterian Church government,
the Presbytery of New Brunswick has always been firm
in maintaining the rights of Presbyteries against the
encroachments of the higher judicatories.     Certainly,
our higher judicatories were constituted by the junc-
tion of Presbyteries.  In Scotland, the General Assem-
bly existed before there were either Presbyteries or
Synods, and all church power descended from that
body; but not so with us, where Presbyteries first ex-
isted, of which the higher judicatories were formed.
This schism in the Presbyterian Church in Amei'ica
lasted about seventeen years, although negotiations for
a reconciliation were going on a great part of this time,
chiefly by the members of the Presbytery of New York,
who Avcre absent from the meeting of Synod at which
the disruption occurred.
                        CHAPTER V.

Mr. Gillicrt Tcnnent removes to Philadelphia to be the pastor of the
                             —
  Second Presbyterian Church Mission to Great Britain for the College
  of New Jersey —  Exertions to get a comraodiuus church crccli'd
                        —                         —
  His Sickness and Death Eulogy on his character Ills Publications.


    The preaching of Mr. Whitefiekl, in Philadelphia,
was the means of the conversion of many souls. A
number of these, with others who agreed with them
in sentiment, and were admirers of Mr. Whitefield's
preaching, and friends of th& revival, had formed a
new Presbyterian congregation in that city. Being
desirous to obtain a pastor of like views and senti-
ments with themselves, and one possessed of talents
and eloquence suited to such a station, they turned
their eyes upon the Rev. Gilbert Tennent.     Their call
to him was presented in May, 1743, just two years
after the rupture of the Synod, which took place in
the same city.    Mr. Tennent did not hesitate to accept
tliis call, as he saw that the sphere of his influence

would be greatly enlarged. He was, therefore, regu-
larly released from his pastoral charge in New Bruns-
wick, where he had preached for sixteen years.        In
the important station on which he now entered, he
continued to exercise his ministry with groat fidelity
and diligence for twenty years. During this whole
period, comprehending more than one half of his
ministerial life, he seems to have lived in peace with
all men.   The fiery edge of his zeal had worn off, and
he had found by experience that neither people nor
ministers were ever rendered better by vituperative
attacks from the pulpit or the press.       During the
whole of the latter part of his life, Mr. Gilbert Ten-
nent, as far as has come to our knowledge, never had
        5*                                    (53)
54              THE LOG COLLEGE.
any controversy with any of his brethren, but seems
to have conducted himself in a friendly and peaceable
manner toward all men.     From this it Avould seem that
he was not of a quarrelsome or litigious spirit. It
may hence be fairly inferred, that the warm contro-
versies in which he engaged with his brethren of the
Synod of Philadelphia, were entered into conscien-
tiously and on principle.   We have no doubt, that in
this whole concern he was at the time fully persuaded
that he was doing God service, and performing a pain-
ful duty toward his opposing brethren, which he could
not with a good conscience omit.    But as was before
said, we are of opinion that he was mistaken, and pro-
ceeded on an erroneous principle and there is good
                                        ;


reason to think that he was of the same opinion him-
self in this latter part of his life.
   The only interruption of his pastoral labours in
Philadelphia, was occasioned by a mission to Great
Britain, in conjunction with the Rev. Samuel Davies,
of Virginia, for the College of New Jersey.      At the
request of the Trustees of New Jersey College, the
Synod of New York appointed these two gentlemen
to cross the Atlantic, to solicit funds for the College.
The mission was, in a good degree, successful but ;


of this our only account is found in the diary of the
Rev. Mr. Davies. It does not appear that Mr. Ten-
nent ever kept any journal or diary, at home or
abroad.    From Mr. Davies's journal we learn that he
and Mr. Tennent went on board a vessel bound for
London, November 17, 1753, and on the next day set
sail.  They arrived in London on the 25th of Decem-
ber, and were Avell received.     We arc unable to give
any account of Mr. Tennent's preaching, and its effects
on "the people whom he addressed, for he and Mr.
Davies seem to have been separated from each other
for the most part.   But in regard to the direct object
of their mission, he says, under date of April 7, 1754,
" We   have had most surprising success in our mission;
which, notwithstanding the languor of my nature, I
        THE REV.      (}   I L   B E 11 T T E N N E N T.       55

cannot review without passionate emotions.   From the
best information of our friends, and our own observa-
tion on our arrival here, we couhl not raise our hopes
above £300, but we have already got about <£1200.
Our friends in America cannot hear the news with the
same surprise-, as they do not know the difficulties Ave
have had to encounter; but to me it appears the most
signal interposition of Providence I ever saAV."
   It appears from the journal of the Rev. Samuel
Davies, that by means of Mr. Tenncnt's " Nottingliam
Sermon," which some person unfriendly to him and
his mission had sent over to England, strong prejudices
had been excited against him before his arrival so         ;


that he was rarely invited to preach in the dissenting
pulpits of London.    And it is probable that during his
whole visit to Great Britain he was under a cloud,
which must have rendered his visit unpleasant, and yet
was a just chastisement for preaching and publishing
that very uncharitable discourse.
   While Mr. Gilbert Tcnnent was in Great Britain, a
friend to the conversion of the Indians put into his
hands two hundred pounds sterling, to be made use of
by the Synod of New York, in sending missionaries to
these heathen tribes.   This seems to have excited, for
a time, a considerable missionary spirit among the
ministers in connection with this Synod.    Several pas-
tors, who had charges, went on temporary missions
and j\Ir. John Brainerd devoted himself wholly to the
work among the tribes who resided in New Jersey.
   John Brainerd was the brother of David, whose de-
voted missionary life is so well known, and has had so
powerful an effect in exciting the missionary spirit, in
Great Britain as well as America. His brother suc-
ceeded him, supported by the same society in Scotland
which had supported himself. But after some time he
relinquished the missionary work, and accepted a pas-
toral charge in the town of Newark, New Jersey.     The
contribution from Scotland was now withdrawn, as
there was no missionary among the Indians.          But
56                    T II E   L   G   C     LL EGE

when Mr. Tennent returned with the aforementioned
Bum, appropriated to this object, the Synod of New
York renewed their missionary enterprise and as the       ;

very name of Brainerd was precious to the Indians of
New Jersey, Mr. John Brainerd, by the advice of the
Synod, resigned           his charge,       and returned      to the In-
dians.
   " The Rev. Messrs. Tennent and Davies, when in
Great Britain, received from various persons in Lon-
don the sum of £298 17s., for the education of such
                                        '


youth for the ministry of the gospel, in the College of
New Jersey, as are unable to defray the expenses of
their education, who appear upon proper examination
to be of promising genius, Calvinistic principles, and
in the judgment of charity experimentally acquainted
with the work of saving grace, and to have distin-
guished zeal for the glory of God, and the salvation of
men.'   The annual interest of the aforesaid sum only
was to be appropriated. To this sum was added, by
another donor, XIO 7s. 6d., making the whole of this
charitable fund to be £307 4s. 6d.
   " The money aforesaid was, by Messrs. Tennent and
Davies, put into the hands of the Trustees of New
Jersey College, to be applied to the education of such
youth, of the character above mentioned, as shall be
examined and approved by the Synod of New York,
(or by what name soever that body of men may be
hereafter called) and by them recommended ta the
trustees of said college, and to be divided among such
youths, in proportion as said Synod shall think fit.
To the above sums fifty pounds sterling were added by
an individual, making the whole sum £357 4s. 6d."*
     A
     report has attained some currency, that INIr. Ten-
nent and Mr. Davies did not perfectly harmonize when
on this mission but though it is possible that some cool-
                      ;


ness may have arisen between these eminent ministers,
there is not any written document in which we have

         * This fund wa^ nearly all lost during the revolutionary war.
         THE KEV. GILBEllT TENNENT.                     57

found the least hint of any difFcrence. From the sua-
vity of Mr. Davies's disposition, and the perfect polite-
ness of his manners, we cannot think that there is any
foundation for the report.     The men, it is true, in na-
tural disposition, were not altogether congenial    ;  for
while the manners of one wore polished and calculated
to please, it is probable those of the other were rough,
blunt, and not at all courtly.   We shall, therefore, dis-
miss this report as one of the thousands Avhich have no
probable foundation.     No doubt Mr. Davies carried off
the palm, as to popularity in London and other places
and if Mr. Tennent was at all susceptible of the feelings
of envy, which are very natural to the human heart,
and the remains of which are often found lurking in
the hearts of ministers as well as others, he might
have felt badly in finding himself eclipsed by a much
younger man. But, as was said, we have no right to
charge him with any such feeling, and we are confident,
that INIr. Davies's treatment of him must have been
uniformly respectful and affectionate for it was so to
                                       ;


everybody.
   After Mr. Tenncnt's settlement in Philadelphia, he
exerted himself with great energy and perseverance
to get a good house of worship erected for the congre-
gation which he served.       Indeed, at that time the
building of such an edifice as that which, by his indefa-
tigable exertions, was erected at the north-cast corner
of the intersection of INIulberry (or Arch) and Third
streets, for the second Presbyterian church in Phila-
delphia, was a great work.    Very few of the Presby-
terian denomination then possessed so much wealth.
Mr. Tennent not only obtained nearly all the subscrip-
tions for the building, Imt actually superintended the
work in person, and assiduously watched over it, from
its commencement to its completion.    After some time
the congregation added a handsome steeple to the
building.
  Such men as Mr. Gilbert Tennent always appear
greatest in times of excitement and stu-ring activity.
68              THE LOG COLLEGE.

It may well be doubted whether his preaching was as
awakening and impressive after his removal to Phila-
delphia as it was before.     Some change in his views
and feelings, as to the best method of promoting re-
ligion, had taken place it would be very natural to
suppose.    The warmth of his religious feelings had in
some measure cooled, and the violence of his zeal had,
by time and experience, been mitigated. From this
time he seems to have gone along as quietly as other
ministers around him.       We thus judge, because we
have never heard of any remarkable effects of his
preaching after his settlement in Philadelphia. There
is another thing which ought not to be overlooked.    In
a great city the hearers are more fastidious than in the
country, and will not tolerate so much liberty of di-
gression, and so frequent departures from good taste
and correct composition. Before Mr. Gilbert Tennent
went to Philadelphia, though, doubtless, he studied his
sermons carefully, and digested his matter under a suf-
ficient variety of heads, yet he preached without having
written his discoui'ses, and like all ardent preachers,
gave himself great indulgence in pursuing any new
train of ideas which was presented dui-ing the time of
preaching.     But when settled in a great city, he
thought it necessary, for the sake of correctness, to
write his sermons, and read them from the pulpit.
This circumstance alone, probably, produced a great
alteration in his mode of preaching.   Many men who
preach admirably when free to follow the thoughts
which they have arranged, or to pursue such as spring
up at the time, when confined to a discourse written in
the study, appear to be very much cramped, and lose
much of their vivacity and    natural eloquence.   The
writer once conversed with a plain and pious man, who
in early life being apprenticed to a trade in Philadel-
phia, attended Mr. Tennent's ministry.   We asked him
respecting his manner of preaching.      He answered
simply, " that jNIr. Tennent was never worth anything
after he came to Philadelphia;" "for," said he, "he
            THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                  59

took to reading his sermons, and lost all his animation."
This testimony came from a class not sufficiently con-
sidered, when the hest mode of preaching is under
consideration.   Our reference is too much to the taste
of men of cultivated minds, who form but a small part
of any congregation ; and even these, when pious, are
better pleased with blundering simplicity, joined with
animation, than with cold accuracy, when the most
solemn truths are delivered without emotion.
   Though Mr. Tennent, however, probably lost a con-
siderable portion of his early vehemence and impres-
siveness, which can be well enough accounted for by
the mere increase of years, without supposing any
real diminution of zeal, yet his discourses, as appears
by those published, were various and instructive. This
will appear more clearly when we come to speak of his
writings.
  The interest of Mr. Gilbert Tennent in revivals, and
his  joy at the conversion of sinners, continued un-
abated. For in March, 1757, an extraordinary revival
of religion occurred in the New Jersey college, con-
cerning which he thus speaks in the preface to one of
his volumes of sermons   :
                          " In March last, I received a
letter from the College of New Jersey, informing me
of an extraordinary appearance of the Divine power
and presence there, and requesting I would come and
see.   With this kind motion I gladly complied and ;


having been there some time, had all the evidence of
the aforesaid report, which could be in reason desired."
He then inserts a letter from his brother William,
giving a particular account of the nature and progress
of the work   ; which was addressed to the Rev. Dr.
Finley, and the autograph of which the writer has
seen.*
   For about three years before his death, Mr. Tennent
became very infirm, so that he was unable to go through
the duties which devolved upon him as the pastor of a

                   * See Appendix, No. 1.
GO              TIIELOGCOLLEGE.
large city congregation. In December, 1762, the con-
gregation got leave to present a call to the Rev. George
Duffield, J). D., then of Carlisle, to be a co-pastor with
Mr. Tennent. This call Dr. Duffield declined to ac-
cept, and the congregation remained without another
pastor until Mr. Tennent's death which event occurred
                                  ;


in the year 1764, in the sixty-second year of his age.
   Of the circumstances of his death. Dr. Finley, in
his funeral sermon, says but little.    In the general,
he informs us, that, " as he lived to the Lord, so death
was his unspeakable gain and his being conscious of
                           ;

it made him ardently wish for the pleasing hour when

he should enter into the joy of his Lord."    .   . "He
                                                      .


had an habitual unshaken assurance of his interest in
redeeming love, for the space of more than forty years
but eight days before his death he got a more clear
and aftecting sense of it still. And though he lamented
that he had done so little for God, and that his life
had been comparatively unprofitable yet he triumphed
                                      ;


in the grace of Jesus Christ, who had pardoned all his
sins ;and said his assurance of salvation was built on
the Scriptures, and was more sure than the sun and
moon."
   His congregation placed a monumental stone over
his remains, in the middle aisle of the church in which
he had so long preached. The inscription on this stone
was written by his friend Dr. Finley, in classical Latin.
When this church was remodelled, his remains and
those of Dr. Finley also, were removed to the cemetery
of the Second Presbyterian Church, in Arch street,
between Fifth and Sixth streets.
   After Mr. Tennent's death, there was an eulogy on
his character, published in Philadelphia, by a young
gentleman of that city, from which some extracts will
be made, as serving to show in what estimation he was
held in the place where he spent more than twenty
years of his life.  We expect, in discourses of this
kind, some exaggeration ; but as this eulogy was ad-
dressed to the public, who were well acquainted with
          THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                       Gl

the person eulogized, it must have a general founda-
tion of truth and the reader, by making an allowance
              ;


for the strong expressions of the partial writer, may
form a pretty correct opinion of the true character of
the person celebrated.

  After an introduction, this writer goes on to say:
" He whose memory these pages arc intended to celebrate,
was distinguished in a very remarkable manner, by his emi-
nent endowments of mind a love of learning that nothing
                           ;


could abate ; an intense application that no recreations could
divert.   His great proficiency in the several branches of
literature, while the powers of his soul were but just open-
ing, raised the expectations of all that knew him.      What
recommended these amiable accomplishments was, that they
were early adorned with the charms of Divine grace. It was
his study to remember his Creator in the days of his youth.
As he often inculcated the necessity and manifold advantages
of early piety, so he might with propriety have added his
own experience of them, as an inducement to the votaries of
gayety and pleasure to embrace the pleasures that flow from
true religion.   He had no sooner experienced what it was
to pass from death unto life, and from a state of nature to a
state of grace, than he formed a resolution of spending his
time, his talents, and his all, in the service of God, in his
sanctuary; previously to the accomplishment of which de-
sign, he devoted himself wholly to the study of the sacred
scriptures, and his own heart, and not merely to a dry sys-
tem of speculative notions. He was too sensible of the
importance of that arduous office, to rush into it without
suitable preparation.  He knew too well the worth of pre-
cious immortal souls to recommend any other foundation for
the hopes of their future happiness, than what he was well
assured would stand the test of beating rains and descending
showers          The manner in which he usually preached,
and the indifference with which he treated all secular ad-
vantages, abundantly evinced, that neither a love of popular
applause, nor a desire of promoting his own affluence and
ease, could have been any inducement to him to assume the
holy function.   But, on the contrary, an ardent love to
God, and a desire to advance his glory in the world, by pro-
claiming pardon and reconciliation     through the atoning
          6
62                THE LOG COLLEGE.
blood of his crucified Son, were his only motives for the
choice of that noble, disinterested profession.    As he en-
tered into the ministry in the prime of life, when his bodily
constitution was in its full vigour, he devoted his juvenile
strength and ardour of mind to the service of the church,
at a time when their exertion was of the greatest import-
ance.   Few that knew Mr. Tenn^nt in that season of life,
can speak of him without some pleasing emotions.          The
good old Puritan spirit that had for a series of years been
asleep, seemed to revive and blaze forth in him with a
genuine lustre.    He was, indeed, like the harbinger of his
Master, 'a burning and a shining light,' in the church.
His undisscmbled piety, his fervent zeal, his pungency of
address, and his indefatigable assiduity in the performance
of every ministerial duty, were remarkably eminent.        He
might truly be styled a Boanerges. As he knew the com-
position and make of the human heart, so he knew how to
speak to it ; and all his discourses were aimed at the foiin-
tain of impurity and sin.    He knew that a reformation that
did not take its rise in the heart, could not be of long con-
tinuance, or pleasing in the sight of God ; and, therefore,
he always strove to convince his hearers, that a thorough
renovation of it was necessary to salvation.
   " As his presence was venerable, and his voice command-
ing, so his very appearance in the pulpit filled the minds
of his hearers with a kind of religious awe.     .   .   .The
thunderings and mighty vociferations of Mount Sinai seemed
to roar from the sacred desk, when he denounced the wrath
of God against him that transgressed but once God's law,
which he knew to be spiritual, and that nothing but a per-
fect obedience—   which man in his fallen state is unable to
        —
perform would satisfy its demands.       Hence, he made it his
constant practice to sound the alarm of God's curse abiding
on the whole human race ; and taught that to doom man to
everlasting misery would be highly consistent with the mercy
and justice of Jehovah. But while he enforced the truth
of inspiration, ' that in Adam all die,' he was no less warm
in procLiiming, Hhat in Christ all shall be made alive.'
And as he knew how to wound, so he knew how to pour the
oil of consolation on the bleeding conscience.   The blood of
Jesus, that sacred healing balm, was his grand catholicon for
sin-sick souls.    This aloue was what he recommended as
             THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                               G3

sufficient to procure case to the      trembling sinner; with the
love of God to man    —
                    in sending his beloved Son into the
world, to redeem a race of rebel sinners, by bearing on
the accursed tree the heavy punishment due to man's
enormous crimes, in order         to   translate   him to the regions
of eternal joy.
  *'
       The beginning of his ministry was employed in long and
tedious itinerations. And wherever he had a prospect of
doing good, however remote the place might be from his
friends, and however repugnant to his own ease, he needed
no other inducement, but cheerfully undertook the pleasing
task.
   "Fatigues and toils from which even worldly men in the
prosecution of an earthly good shrink back, he joyfully en-
gaged in ; and with a degree of perseverance peculiar to
himself, bravely overcame those difficulties, which to some
minds appeared insurmountable. ... It pleased God, in a
very gracious manner, to crown his labours with success.
The energy of the divine Spirit accompanied his ministra-
tions.   Wherever he went the kingdom of Satan trembled;
the desolate and solitary places bloomed like the rose before
him ; and he became the happy instrument of turning many
from the error of their ways to the living God.
   "His knowledge in divinity, in which he made great pro-
ficiency, was entirely derived from the Bible ; and whatever
truth it enforced as duty, he inculcated    his arguments for
                                                   •



the one, and motives for the other, were all taken from those
inspired pages, which he prized above all human writings,
aud valued as the charter by which he possessed the hope,
and ere long expected the full enjoyment of a blessed
eternity.
   " Sensible how much man is dependent upon God for
every blessing he enjoys, and that the best way to keep the
flame of devotion alive in his own soul, was to maintain
a constant intercourse with heaven, he made prayer his
chief and most delightful employment.     This was the very
breath of his soul.   .   . llis manner of praying was such
                              .



as evidenced it to be not the mere language of the passions,
but a rational, solemn, and animated address to the great
Father of spirits.
   "After having laboured for many years, with much suc-
cess,   iu   New Brunswick, where          he was      settled,   by the
64               THE LOG COLLEGE.
advice of his brethren he accepted an urgent call from the
Second Presbyterian church in Philadelphia, while the
society was in its infant state; and continued to exercise his
pastoral functions there for upwards of twenty years, with a
degree of watchfulness and fidelity scarcely to be paralleled.
He considered himself as the shepherd of his flock, and
made it his practice to lead them to the green pastures and
living fountains of salvation, with the care of one that knew
he must render an account at the last day. Nay, he con-
sidered himself the father of his people, and as his beloved
children he counselled, warned, and reproved them with all
the tenderness and solicitude of a father's heart.     He was,
indeed, a faithful watchman, that never failed to give warn-
ing of impending danger. The rich and the poor, the black
and white had equally free access to his person, and ever
found him ready to hear their complaints and solve their
doubts.
    " What he preached in the pulpit, his life preached out
of it.                    —                      —
            His disposition naturally calm was still more
sweetened with that holy temper which the gospel of Christ
inspires.  A     genuine serenity and cheerfulness dwelt upon
his countenance, which he never failed to diffuse on all
 around him.       He was charitable to the poor ; kind to all
 men ; a lover of all that loved the Lord Jesus, whatever
 mode of worship they professed ; and much beloved in all
 the tender endearfnents of domestic life, as. a husband, a
 father, a master, and a friend.
    " There is nothing in this world, methinks, more grand
 or illustrious than the old age of a man who has devoted his
 whole time, and spent his whole life in promoting the spiri-
 tual interests of his fellow-creatures. .   .   The review of
                                                 .



 his life fills the soul with a pleasure which none but such as
 experience it can conceive.       Whilst he sees no ill-spent
 time to sting his conscience with remorse, nor feels any at-
 tachment to the transitory things of this world, he beholds
 a calm haven prepared for his repose, where the storms and
 billows of affliction can reach him no more.        ... In this
 light should we contemplate Mr. Tennent.         His soul, like
 the setting sun, broke through the clouds of infirmity.
 There was a dignity and grandeur in his old age. Wisdom
 bloomed upon his silver locks ; and while the cold hand of
 time snowed upon his locks, his heart glowed with redoubled
           THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                       65

love for the church.       .  Nor more dreadful to the man
                               .   .



of ease in his possessions is the approach of the king of ter-
rors, than he was welcome to this eminent servant of God.
Every symptom of his approaching dissolution, instead of
filling his soul with alarms, rather filled him with comfort,
and made him impatiently long      for the kind stroke that
should dismiss his soul.    After having borne a long and
tedious illness with the most invincible fortitude and resig-
nation, the friendly messenger at last came with the joyful
                                       ^


summons.       .   And with full confidence in the merits
                   .   .



and atonement of his dear Kedeemerj he gently fell
asleep."

   The following is the most accurate list of Mr. Gil-
bert Tenncnt's works which the author has been able
to collect:

  1. In the year 1735, Mr. Tennent published his " Solemn
Warning   to the secure World, from the Grod of Terrible
Majesty; or, the Presumptuous Sinner Detected, his Pleas
Considered, and his Doom Displayed."     This volume was
printed in Boston.
  2.   " Sermons on Sacramental Occasions, by Divers Au-
thors.     Asmall duodecimo volume.     The sermons are all
by Mr. Gilbert Tennent, except two; one by his brother
William, and the other by the Rev. Samuel Blair. Lt
would seem that at the time when this volume was pub-
lished, no books were printed either in New York or Phila-
delphia ; for the manuscript was sent to Boston, and printed
there in the year 1739.
   3. Two Sermons of the Rev. John Tennent, with a Pre-
fiice, containing a memoir of him, to which is added, " An

Expostulatory Address to Saints and Sinners," by Gilbert
Tennent.     Printed in Boston, in the year 1735.
   4. " The Espousals, or a Passionate Persuasion to a Mar-
riage with the Lamb of God."      Newport, 1741.
    5. His next publication was, probably, his famous " Not-
tingham Sermon," in which he lashed his brethren of the
Synod so severely, that it had much influence in leading to
the separation which soon followed.
  6. "The Examiner Examined" was written in the year
1740, and is an answer to a pamphlet written against him
by an anonymous author, after his visit to New England.
       6*
66                     TIIELOGCOLLEGE.
       7.    "Tbc   Pacificator," a large    pamphlet, the object of
which was to bring about a reunion of the dissentient par-
ties in       the Presbyterian church.
       8.    A small quarto volume of sermons, twenty-three in
number.          These Discourses appear to have been the com-
mencement of a body of Divinity. The subjects treated are,
'' The Chief End of Man—The Divine Authority of the
                         —
Sacred Scriptures The Being and Attributes of God, and
the Trinity."  Preached in Philadelphia, in 1743.
  9. Two sermons, preached at Burlington, N. J., on a
day of Public Fasting, 1749. They are dedicated to Goa^-
ernor Belcher.                                       —
                The texts are. Matt. vi. 16 18, and Jonah
iii.    8.
   10. "Sermons on Important Subjects, adapted to the
perilous state of the British Nation." 1758.

  We do not know where Mr. Tennent obtained his
degree of Master of Arts.     It would be natural to
suppose fhat it was conferred by the Trustees of the
College of New Jersey but his name is not on the
                                 ;


catalogue ; while we find there the name of some of
his contemporaries, who received honorary degrees.
As he Avas a Trustee of New Jersey College, it is pro-
bable that this honor was conferred on him by Yale or
Harvard, or possibly, by one of the Scotch, univer-
sities.


       11.    A Funeral Sermon, occasioned by the death of Cap-
tain William Grant.          Preached in Philadelphia, 1756.
   12.The last publication of Mr Gilbert Tennent was, " A
Sermon on the Nature of Religious Zeal. Its Excellency and
Importance opened and urged."               Preached in Philadelphia,
January 27, 1760.

       The style of these several publications is very diverse
as they were composed at different periods of Mr. Ten-
ncnt's life, on different subjects, and in different cir-
cumstances.    In all his writings perspicuity and force
are manifest characteristics of his style but there is a
                                                    ;


great want of simplicity and ease.       Throughout the
whole, the doctrines inculcated arc rigidly orthodox,
         THE REV. aiLBERT TENNENT.                    67

according to the Westminster Confession.         In his
didactic discourses he shows himself not only to be a
profound thinker, but a well read theologian      ; and
often quotes the standard Latin writers of systematic
theology, as one who had been accustomed to read
them.   While he manifests an ardent zeal in defence
of the 'doctrines of grace,' he never loses sight of the
importance of experimental religion and practical god-
liness.  In conformity with the custom of the age, he
too much abounds in divisions and subdivisions, and is
too fond of technical words and phrases.   His practi-
cal discourses, however, are often both pungent and
searching.
   It is somewhat remarkable, that while so many old
authors have been republished in our day, none of the
writings of Gilbert Tennent have ever passed to a
second edition.  A   selection from his works should be
published, that we might not only have a sketch of the
lives of the divines of the Log College, but a specimen
of their theology.
                         CHAPTER VL

Mr. Gilbert Tennent's letter to the Rev. Mr. Prince, containing many in-
  teresting particulars of the state of religion in New Brunswick, and vi-
  cinity; and also in Philadelphia, and various other places.



The preceding memoir of Gilbert Tennent was drawn
up before the writer met with the following letter from
his own pen, addressed to the Rev. Mr. Prince, of
Boston, and published in his " Christian History,"
dated August 24, 1744, soon after Mr. Tennent had
removed to Philadelphia. This letter sheds a satisfac-
tory light on several parts of Mr. Tennent's life, which
all other accounts leave in obscurity, as for example,
the success of his ministry in New Brunswick, while
the pastor of that church ; and also in Staten Island,
where he .had a congregation, in which his labours appear
to have been blessed.     It is a sad evidence of the re-
trograde march of Presbyterianism in some parts of
our country, that after the lapse of a complete century
there is not a vestige of a Presbyterian congregation
in that island ; nor has there been, within the memory
of any person living.    Even the part of the island in
which this congregation was located, cannot now be
ascertained.
   Such parts of Mr. Tennent's letter as have no bear-
ing on his own life, have been omitted, but we have re-
tained much the larger part, and in his own language.

Extracts from the letter of the Rev. Grilbert Tennent, to
   the Rev. Mr. Prince, of Boston, published in the " Chris-
   tian History" of the latter.

   " I am glad it pleased the sovereign God to make my poor
labours of any service among you.      I desire ever to bless
his name for that undeserved mercy.       I am thankful for
       (68)
           THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                        69

the '' Christian History/' and well pleased with the design
and management of the work. I hope it will be a means in
God's hand of conveying with honour to posterity, a me-
morial of the late blessed revival of religion, which has been
so virulently opposed by many."

   Here he introduces a long extract from a public at-
testation to the reality of the work of grace in the late
revival, which was prefixed toMr. Dickinson's " Dis-
play of Special Grace."   This public testimony Avas
subscribed by Gilbert Tennent, William Tennent, Sa-
muel Blair, Richard Treat, Samuel Finley, and John
Blair.  Some parts of this paper will not be out of
place here, as, no doubt, it was drawn up by Gilbert
Tennent.
  ''
     If any should inquire what we mean by the work of
God, we think the judicious author of the following dialogue
(Mr. Dickinson) has given a plain and pertinent answer, to
which we give our approbation. ' A work of conviction and
conversion spread not long since in many places of these
provinces, with such power and progress as even silenced for
a time the most malignant opposers.          They were either
afraid or ashamed openly to contradict such astonishing dis-
plays of the divine Almightiness in alarming multitudes of
secure sinners out of their fatal stupor, and exciting in them
the utmost solicitude about the everlasting concerns of their
souls ; many of whom gave us a rational and scriptural ac-
count of their distress, and afterwards of their deliverance
from it, agreeable to the method of the gospel of Christ.
Their comforts as well as their sorrows appeared, by all the
evidence wc can have of such things, to be agreeable to
scripture and reason.
   ''It is shocking to think that any should dare to oppose
a work attended with such commanding evidence as has been
among us. We would beseech all such solemnly to answer
the following paragraph of the Rev. Mr. Robe, minister of
the gospel in Kilsyth, Scotland, in his preface to his ' Narra-
tive,' which is as follows :  I seriously beg of any who are
                               '


prejudiced against this dispensation of God's extraordinary
grace, and look upon it as a delusion, that they will show
themselves so charitable, as to direct mc and other ministers,
70               T II   ELOG COLLEGE.
what we shall answer distressed persons of all ages, who
come to us crying bitterly that they are undone, because of
unbelief and other sins   —'* What shall we do to be saved !"

And as a young girl about twelve, who had been in distress
for some time called upon me in the house where I was, and
asked me with great sedateness, " What shall I do to get
Christ ?" shall we tell them that they are not Christless,
and are not unconverted, when we evidently see many of
them to be such ? Shall we tell them that their fears of the
wrath of God are all but delusion, and that it is no such a
dreadful thing that they need to be much afraid of it?
Shall we tell persons lamenting their cursing and swearing,
Sabbath-bx'eaking, and other immoralities, that it is the
devil that now makes them see these evils to be oifensive to
God, and destructive to their souls ? Shall we tell them,
who, under the greatest uneasiness, inquire of us what they
shall do to get an interest and faith in Jesus Christ, that
Satan is deluding them, when they have, or show any con-
cern this way ?   In fine, shall we pray and recommend it to
them to pray to God, to deliver them from such delusions ?
It would be worse than devilish to treat the Lord's sighing
and groaning prisoners at this rate ; and yet such treatment
is a natural consequence of   reckoning this the work of the
devil, and a delusion.'
   " I may add that both our Presbyteries of New Bruns-
wick and New Castle have, in their declaration of May 26,
1748, printed at Philadelphia, manifested their cordial con-
currence with the protestation of the Presbytery of New
York, in which are these words, viz. 'We protest against
                                      :


all those passages which have been published in these parts
which seem to reflect on the work of divine power and grace,
which has been carrying on in so wonderful a manner in
many of our congregations ; and declare to all the world,
that we look upon it to be the indispensable duty of all our
ministers to encourage that glorious work, with their most
faithful and diligent endeavours.'
                                   "


  This public protestation was signed by Jonathan
Dickinson, Ebenezer Pemberton, Daniel Elmore, Silas
Leonard, John Pierson, Simon Ilorton, and Azariah
Horton, ministers ; and by Nathaniel Hazard, Timothy
Whitehead, and David Whitehead, elders.           Now, the
       THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                         71

concurrence of the Presbyteries of New Brunswick and
New Castle with the aforesaid Protest is expressed in
the following words, in the 5th page of their Declara-
tion : " With this Protestation of our reverend and
other brethren we heartily agree."     And in the 13th
page they declare, " that they could not come into a
state of settled constant communion with such as had
protested against them, until they received competent
satisfaction ; especially concerning their opposition to,
and reflections upon the work of God's grace, and suc-
cess of the gospel in the land."

   " I trust I may say to the glory of God's grace, that it
pleased the most high God to let me see considerable suc-
cess in the places where I laboured statedly many years be-
fore I came hither.
   " The labours of the Rev. Mr. Frelinghuysen, a Dutch
Calvinist minister, were much blessed to the people of New
Brunswick, and places adjacent ; especially about the time
of his coming among them, which was about twenty-four
years ago.
   " When I came there, which was about seven years after,
I had the pleasure of seeing much of the fruits of his min-
istry ; divers of his hearers, with Whom I had the oppor-
tunity of conversing, appeared to be converted persons, by
their soundness in principle, Christian experience, and pious
pi'actice; and these persons declared that the ministrations
of the aforesaid gentleman were the means thereof.      This,
together with a kind letter which he sent me, respecting the
dividing the word aright, and giving to every man his por-
tion in due season, through the divine blessing, excited me
to greater earnestness in ministerial labours.  I began to be
very much distressed about my want of success ; for I know
not for half a year or more after I came to New Brunswick
that any one was converted by my labours, although seve-
ral persons were at times aifected transiently.    It pleased
God, about that time, to afflict me with sickness, by which
I had aflFeeting views of eternity.   I was then exceedingly
grieved I had done so little for God, and was very desirous
to live one half year more, if it was his will, that I might
stand upon the stage of the world, as it were, and plead
72*               TIIELOacOLLEGE.
more faithfully for his cause, and take more earnest paina
for the salvation of souls.  The secure state of the world
appeared   to   me in a very affecting light
                                          ; and one thing,
among others, pressed me sore, that     Ihad spent so much
time in conversing about trifles, which might have been
spent in examining people's states, and persuading them to
turn unto God.     I therefore prayed to God that he would
be pleased to give me one half year more, and I was deter-
mined to promote his kingdom with all my might, and at
all adventures.   This petition God was pleased to grant
manifold, and to enable me to keep my resolution in some
measure.
   "After I was raised up to health, I examined many
about the grounds of their hope of salvation, which I found
in most to be nothing but as the sand.     With such I was
enabled to deal faithfully and earnestly, in warning them
of their danger, and urging them to seek converting grace.
By this method many were awakened out of their security,
and of these, divers were to all appearance effectually con-
verted ; but some that I spoke plainly to were prejudiced.
And here I would have it observed, that as soon as an
effectual door was opened, I found many adversaries, and
my character was covered with unjust reproaches, which
through divine goodness did not discourage me in my work.
I did then preach much on original sin, repentance, the
nature and necessity of conversion, in a close, examinatory,
and distinguishing way labouring, in the mean time, to
                           :



sound the trumpet of God's judgments, and alarm the secure
by the terrors of the Lord, as well as to affect them with
other topics of persuasion which method was sealed by the
                               :


Holy Spirit, in the conviction and conversion of a considera-
ble number of persons, at various times, and in different
places, in that pai't of the country, as appeared by their
acquaintance with experimental religion, and good conver-
sation.
  " I may further observe, that frequently at sacramental
seasons, in New Brunswick, there have been signal displays
of the divine power and presence.  Divers have been con-
vinced of sin, by the sermons there preached, some con-
verted, and many much affected with the love of God in
Jesus Christ.    the sweet meltings that I have seen ou
such occasions among many        New Brunswick did then
                                   !
        THE REV. aiLBERT TENNENT.                          73

look like a field the Lord had blessed.   It was like a little
Jerusalem, to which the scattered tribes with eager haste
repaired at sacramental solemnities  ; and there they fed on*
the fatness of God's house, and drank of the rivers of his
pleasures.   But alas the scene is now altered
                     !                           !



   " While I lived in the place aforesaid, I do not remem-
ber that there was any great ingathering of souls at any
one time j but, through mercy, there were frequently glean-
ings of a few here and there, which in the whole were a
considerable number.      But having never taken a written
account of them, I cannot offer any precise conjecture at
their number, and shall therefore leave it to be determined
at the judgment-day.       But at Staten Island, one of the
places where I statedly laboured, there was, about fifteen
or sixteen years agone, a more general concern about the
affah-s of salvation, which hopefully issued in the conversion
of a pretty many. Once in the time of a sermon from Amos
vi. 7, before which the people were generally secure, the
Spirit of God was suddenly poured out on the assembly
the people wei'e generally affected about the state of their
souls ; and some to that degree, that they fell upon their
knees in the time of the sermon, in order to pray to God
for pardoning mercy.      Many went weeping home from the
sermon ; and then the general inquiry was, ' what must I
do to be saved?' I may further observe, that some few of
those that I hope were converted in the places aforesaid,
were compelled to cry out in the public assembly, both
under the impressions of terror and love. During the late
revival of religion. New Brunswick felt some drops of the
spreading rain, but no general shower.
   " As to Philadelphia, where, by the providence of God,
I now labour statedly, many have been hopefully converted
here during the display of God's grace in this laud.       The
Rev. Mr. Whitefield was the instrument God was pleased
to imjyrove, principally in the awakening and conversion of
sinners here ; 3'et the labours of others have been attended
with some success.     This town, by all that I can learn, was
in deep security generally before Mr. Whitefield came
among them, but his preaching was so blessed, that a great
number were brought under a religious concern about the
salvation of their souls ; multitudes were ' inquiring the way
to Zion with their faces thitherward, weeping as they went.'
        7
74              THE LOG COLLEGE.
Some years since there were so many under soul-sickness in
this place, that my feet were pained in walking from place
to place to see them.      And there was then such an eager-
 ness to hear religious discourse, that when they saw me
 going to a house they would flock to it ; and under what
 was spoken, they were sometimes generally, and to all ap-
 pearance deeply aifected.   And thus it was in more public
 assemblies; there were, sometimes, general meltings.    And
though several persons have lost their religious impressions,
and 'returned with the dog to his vomit;' and some others
have fallen into erroneous sentiments, yet Grod has preserved
many from those evils, who give a rational and scriptural
 account of their conversion, and crown the same by their
practice.   Neither is it strange that some should be carried
 away here by the fair speeches and cunning craftiness of
those that lie in wait to deceive ; seeing that the greater
part in this place have never had the advantage of a strict
religious education, and therefore were never well fixed in
the thorough knowledge of a consistent system of principles.
None that I know of in this town, that were well acquainted
with the doctrines of religion in their connection, and estab-
lished in them, have been turned aside by the tempests and
tricks of errorists.
   " The last Sabbath in May last I gave the sacrament of
the Lord's Supper ; the first time that it was dispensed to
the society to which I belong —  considered as a society. The
number of communicants was above one hundred and forty.
Those persons 1 examined about their gracious state, as well
as doctrinal knowledge ; and, upon trial, almost all of them
gave scriptural and satisfactory account of the ground of
their hope.    Now the chief of these, according to their own
account, have been brought to Christ during the late revival
of religion.    And there are divers other persons, who, in a
 judgment of charity, have got saving benefit during the late
marvellous manifestation of God's grace, who do not join in
commvmion with us.
  " Though there is     in many a considerable decay as to
their liveliness and affectionate ness in religion, yet through
divine goodness they grow more humble and merciful ; and
it is evident by their conversation that the general bent of
their heart is for God.  Since I have come here, my labours
seem to be chiefly serviceable to instruct, and establish the
           THE REV. GILBERT TENNENT.                       75

great truths of religion, and to comfort pious people. There
have been but a few instances of conviction and conversion
in this town that I know of.
   " In some places of this province, some years ago, par-
ticularly inNottingham, Fag's Manor, Whiteclay Creek,
Neshaminy, and elsewhere, there have been such general
lamentations in the time of preaching, that the speaker's
voice has been almost drowned with the cries of the dis-
tressed, even after they have been entreated again and again
to restrain themselves ; yea, and sometimes when the speaker
discoursed in a gospel strain, divers persons in this province
have fallen down to the ground in the time of sermon, as
though they were stabbed with a sword. And what though
some have lost their impressions, and relapsed into their
sordid impieties, this is no more than what the Scriptures
inform us did happen in the apostolic times ; yet it is well
known that many of them, so far as we are capable of judg-
ing by men's speech and practice, have been brought to a
sound conversion.
   " I think it needless here to offer a reply to the cavils of
opposers, which are as numerous as insidious and imperti-
nent.   But this I must say, that mine eyes and ears
have seen and heard so much of the appearance and fruits
of the late revival of religion, that I must reject religion
altogether, and turn infidel, if I should dispute and oppose
the same.    May it please the gracious God to pardon those
unhappy men who have set themselves in opposition to the
work of the most high Grod, and painted it in black and
odious colours, and let them see their sin and danger before
it be too late.
   " Dear sir, I did not think, when I began to write, to
offer any more than our prefatory attestation; but being
urged to mention something of what I have seen and heard,
and finding a pleasure in the subject, I have added, with
the strictest regard to truth and soberness, these few hasty
hints, concerning some matters of feet which I know to be
true ; and shall leave to your discretion to do with them as
you shall see meet.
                             " I am, sir, yours, &c.,
                                     ''
                                          Gilbert Tennent.
     " August 24, 1744."
                     CHAPTER VII.

  The Log College the germ from which proceeded the College of New
Jersey.



   At the time of the disruption of the church, when
the New Brunswick Presbytery was excluded by an
arbitary determination of the majority of the Synod,
the whole Presbytery of New York were absent.       This
Presbytery contained several members of high stand-
ing in the church, such as Dickinson and Burr ; and
although this Presbytery had not been actually engaged
in the controversy with the ministers of Pensylvania
respecting the revival, and respecting Mr. Whitefield,
yet they sympathized on these subjects with the new
Brunswick Presbytery. They were, therefore, much
dissatisfied with the proceedings of the Synod in the
excision of this body ; which, if they had been present,
they could probably have prevented.     When, therefore,
the Synod met the year following the disruption,
these brethren exerted themselves to get the Synod to
receive again the excluded brethren.     When repeated
efforts to procure a restoration of the excluded breth-
ren were without success, they withdrew from the
Synod, and connected themselves with the Presbytery
of New Brunswick      and these, with the Presbytery of
                      ;


New Castle, formed a Synod, and took the name of the
Synod of New York, which in a short time consider-
ably outnumbered the old Synod.
   The Log College, which had done so much and so
good service, was now evidently on the decline. Its
venerable founder, throiigh the infirmities of old age,
was no longer able to act with the energy of his former
years ; and, indeed, his strength had so much failed,
          (76)
             COLLEGE OFNEW JERSEY.                   '77


that soon after this time he was under the necessity of
applying to the Presbytery for aid in the discharge of
his pastoral duties.   There was, therefore, every pros-
pect of the speedy extinction of this humble school of
the Prophets.    But the need of a literary institution
of a high character, where candidates for the ministry
might be fully trained, became more evident every day.
The time for the establishment of a college in the
bounds of the Synod of New York seemed to be au-
spicious.   While the Synod of Philadelphia were
labouring to establish a school for training young
men at New London, the Synod of New York were
 exerting themselves to erect a college which should
 stand upon a level with any other institution in the
 country.
    Messrs. Dickinson and Burr, the former, pastor of the
 Presbyterian Church in Elizabethtown, and the latter,
 in Newark, took the lead in this enterprise.       Both
•these distinguished divines were graduates of Yale
 College but just at this time their minds probably
         ;


 experienced some alienation from their alma mater, on
 account of the harsh treatment which Mr. David
 Brainerd had received from the oflBcers of that col-
 lege ; for he had been expelled merely for a harsh
 word, spoken in a private company, and overheard by
 a student who happened to be passing the door, who
 knew not to whom it referred. But the persons pre-
  sent, contrary to every rule of propriety, were forced
  by the faculty to testify to whiom reference was had.
  Mr. Brainerd, at the time of his expulsion, was a
  member of the Junior Class. Having applied to the
  Presbytery of New York, he was taken under their
  care, and having manifested a strong desire to go and
  preach the gospel to the heathen in our land, the
  Commissioners appointed by the Society in Scotland,
  to employ a missionary to the Indians, selected Mr.
  Brainerd.    It appears that President Clapp, in hi3
  letter to the Synod of Philadelphia, complained of the
  New York Presbytery for receiving under their care
    TS               THE LOG COLLEGE.
!




persons who had left the college under censure where
                                                 ;

the reference was undoubtedly to David Brainerd.       A
strong desire was now felt both by Mr. Brainerd and
his friends to get the stigma removed from his char-
acter.   To effect this the Commissioners who had
employed Mr. Brainerd, deputed the Rev. Mr. Burr,
one of their number, to go to Ncav Haven at the com-
mencement, when his class were about to be graduated,
to endeavour to have him restored.  Jonathan Ed-
wards also, who then became acquainted with Mr.
Brainerd, and formed a strong attachment to him,
used     all influence to accomplish the object; but
               his
their        were ineffectual.
         efforts                 The faculty of the
college remained inflexible, or as it may more pro-
perly be termed, obstinate.  They did offer that if he
would return and remain another year in college,
without giving offence, they would then give him his
degree.   But this could not be done without discon-
certing the whole plan of the mission for which he
was engaged, and in which he became so eminently
successful.  The attachment of all the members of
the New York Synod to Mr. Brainerd was warm, and
deservedly so.   This affair, it is very probable, quick-
ened the zeal of these excellent men to get up a col-
lege of their own.   Some years ago, the writer heard
the relict of the late Dr. Scott, of New Brunswick,
say, that when she was a little girl she heard the
Bev. Mr. Burr declare in her father's house, in New-
ark, "if it had not been for the treatment received
by Mr. Brainerd at Yale, New Jersey college would
never have been erected."      How many influences are
made to combine and operate, when Providence has
the design of giving existence to an institution which
has affected, and will still affect the happiness of
thousands       !



   It was a circumstance favourable to the views of the
friends of a new college, that Mr. Belcher, a man of
humble piety, and great public spirit, was then the act-
ing governor of New Jersey.        It was, therefore, not
             COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.                                 79

found difficult to enlist the zeal and exertions of this
excellent man in the contemplated enterprise.

   The first charter for a college which was obtained
was not satisfactory to governor Belcher, and he suc-
ceeded in obtaining from the royal authority, the very
ample charter under which the college is now governed
and instructed. Mr. Edwards refers to this matter, in
a letter addressed to the Rev. Doctor Erskine, of Edin-
burgh, who took a lively interest in the enterprise, and
requested some information respecting the prospects
of the college.
    " You desire to be informed respecting the present
state of  New Jersey College, and of things of a reli-
gious nature respecting the Indians.  As to the former,
viz., the state of New Jersey college    by the last ac-
                                                ;


counts I had, it is in somewhat of an unsettled state.
Governor Belcher had a mind to give them a new
charter, that he thought would be more for the bene-
fit of the society.    Accordingly the draft of a new
charter was drawn, wherein it was proposed to make
considerable alteration in the corporation of trustees
—  to leave out some of the former trustees, and that
the governor and four of the council of that province
should be put in their place.   These two things made
considerable uneasiness, viz., leaving out part of the
trustees, and making it a part of the constitution,
that the governor and so many of the council should
be members of the corporation      ... As to governor
                                        .


Belcher himself, he appears thoroughly engaged to
promote virtue and vital religion in those parts. The
disposition of governor Belcher may in some measure
be seen in the following extract of a letter from him, in
answer to one I wrote to him on a special occasion.

                          Burlington, New Jersey, Feb. 5th, 1748.

 " ' You   will, sir,         me as a friend and father to
                        be sure of
the missionaries this way ; and of all my might and en-
couragemeut for spreading the everlasting gospel of God our              •
80               THE LOG COLLEGE.
Saviour, in all parts and places where God shall honour me
with any power and influence.     As tp myself, sir, it is im-
possible to express the    warm sentiments of my heart, for
the mercies, without number, with which I have been loaded
by the God who has fed me all along to this day ; and my
 reflection on his goodness covers me with shame and blush-
 ing, for I know my utter unworthiness, and that I am less
 than the least of all his mercies.    I would, therefore, abhor
 myself, and repent in dust and ashes.        You are sensible,
 my good friend, that governors stand in a glaring light,
 and their conduct is watched by friends and enemies ; the
.one often unreasonably applaud, while the other, perhaps,
 too justly censure.    Yet in this I am not anxious, but to
 approve myself to the Searcher of hearts, from whose mouth
 I must hear pronounced, at the great and general audit,
 those joyful words, Enter thou,' &c.
                      '                  ', or that terrible sen-
 tence, Depart from me,' &c.
       '                           Join me then in thankful-
 ness to God for all the blessings and talents he has entrusted
 me with, and in prayer that I may employ them to his honour
 and glory, to the. good of the people over whom he hath placed
 me, and so to the comfort of my own soul; that 1 may
 always remember, that he who ruleth over men must be
                                    "
 just, ruling in the fear of God.'



  Mr, Edwards goes on to say to his correspondent,
"In another letter which I received, dated Bm-lington,
New Jersey, May 31, 1748, he says as follows
   " ' I will prostrate myself before my God and Saviour, and
on the bended knees of my soul (abhorring myself in every
view) I will beg for a measure of divine grace and wisdom
that so I may be honoured in being an instrument in ad-
vancing the kingdom of the blessed Jesus in this world, and
in that way be bringing forth fruit in old age.  I bless God,
my Heavenly Father, that I am not ashamed of the cross of
 Christ; and I humbly ask the assistance of sovereign grace
 that in times of temptation I may never be a shame to it I  ;



 mean, that my conversation may always be such as becometh
 the gospel of Christ.    And I tell you again, that all such
 as minister at the altar, and in the course of their ministry
 approve themselves faithful to the great Head of the Church,
               COLLEGE    OF   NEW JERSEY.                 81

will not only find   my countenance and protection, but my
love and esteem.
  " As to our embryo college, it is a noble design, and, if
      <


God pleases, may prove an extensive blessing. I have
adopted it for a daughter, and hope it may become an alma
mater to this and the neighbouring provinces. I am getting
the best advice and assistance I can in the draft of a char-
ter, which I intend to give to our infant college; and I
thank you, sir, for all the kind hints which you have given
me for the service of this excellent undertaking ; and as St.
Luke says of Mary, 'she l-ept all thse things and jiondercd
them in her heart,' so you may depend what you have said
about the college will not be lost on me ; but as far as God
shall enable me, I will lay out and exert myself in every way
to bring it to maturity, and thus to advance its future wel-
fare and prosperity ; for this, I believe, will be acceptable
in the sight of God our Saviour, a relish for true religion and
piety being a great stranger to this part of America.       The
accounts I receive from time to time, give me reason to be-
lieve that Arminiani^m, Ariauism, and even Sociniauism, in
destruction of the doctrines of free grace, are daily propa-
gated in the New England colleges.     How horribly and how
wickedly are these poisonous notions rooting out those no-
ble principles on which our excellent ancestors founded those
seminaries !   And how base a return is it in the present ge-
neration to that God who is constantly surrounding them
with goodness and mercy.      And how offensive is it in the
eyes of that God who is jealous of his glory, and will take
vengeance on his adversaries, and rcserveth wrath for his ene-
mies.    And from these things I am glad to thank you for
your book, wrote in consequence of the memorial from Scot-
 land for promoting a concert of prayer.    I am much pleased
with this proposal, and with your arguments to encourage
and corroborate the design.    The two missionaries you
mention, Spencer and Strong, I am told are at Boston.    I
have once and again desired Mr. Brainerd to assure them of
my kindness and respect. But their affairs have not yet
led them this way. I rejoice in their being appointed to
carry the gospel in its purity to the Six Nations ; and when
Mr. Brainerd and they proceed to Susquehanna, they shall
have all my assistance and encouragement, by letters to
the king's governors where they may pass, and my letters
to the sachem or chief of those Indians.'
                                          "
82                THELOGCOLLEGE.
•
     It hasbeen judged expedient to insert both these
letters in our account of the origin of New Jersey Col-
lege, as they will serve to give the reader a better idea
of the father and founder of this institution than any
thing to which we can refer him.       For although the
character of governor Belcher has come down to us
marked with piety and benevolence, these are the only
memorials of the man from his own pen with which we
are acquainted.    But from these fragments of corres-
pondence we see how deep was his humility, how fer-
vent his zeal for the promotion of truth and piety, and
his willingness to bear the reproach of the cross.     And
as to his public spirit in promoting the cause of virtue
and literature, the College of New Jersey is a standing
memorial. The good already accomplished by this Col-
lege cannot be calculated, and we trust that it is des-
tined to be a blessing to the community for ages to
come.
   We seem, however, to have lost sight of the design
of this chapter, which was to show that the Log Col-
lege was the germ of the College of New Jersey. But
a little consideration will serve to convince the impartial
reader of the reality of this connection.    The Log Col-
lege had done its work, and a great and good work it
was.     But the progress of the country, the proceedings
of the old Synod, and the general sense of the commu-
nity, made it evident that a literary institution of a
higher order than the log cabin, on the plains of Nes-
haminy, was urgently needed and the members of the
                                   ;



new Synod Avere, no doubt, stimulated to exertion in
this enterprise by the example of the other body, who
were now engaged in establishing a school at New
    London.
       The ministers who now exerted tliemselves in the
    establishment of the New Jersey College were all the
    friends of the Log College ;  and most of them had re-
    ceived their training, both in cUissical and theological
    learning, within the Avails of this humble institution.
    Besides Dickinson and Burr, who were graduates of
           COLLEGE OP NEW JERSEY.                      83

Yale College, the active friends and founders of Nas-
sau Hall were the Tennents, Blairs, Finley, Smith,
Rogers, Davies, and others who had received their
education in the Log College, or in schools instituted
by those who had been instructed there. As this en-
terprise was entered on during the separation of the
Presbyterian Church, those ministers connected with
the old side took no part in it;   and   this, especially,
because they had planned an institution for themselves,
of which we propose to give some account in the ensu-
ing chapter.
   It is not my purpose to write the history of the Nevr
Jersey College; this will be done by another hand.
This institution was commenced in Elizabethtown,
under its first President, the Rev. Jonathan Dickinson,
a man of superior abilities both as a preacher and a
writer, and truly evangelical a friend of revivals, and
                              ;


a zealous promoter of missions among the aborigines
of this country.    He deserves to stand in the foremost
rank among the fathers of the Presbyterian Church in
these United States.      Upon his decease the school
Avas removed to Newark, and placed under the tuition
and care of the Rev. Aaron Burr, another distinguished
man, whose piercing intellect and commanding elo-
quence qualified him to be a leader in such an enter-
prise.   No permanent site for the college had yet been
selected.   Elizabethtown and Newark were too near
the borders of the State New Brunswick was thought
                         ;


of, and the trustees came near fixing it there; but
Providence overruled it, and Princeton, then a very
small and inconsiderable \allage, was selected to be the
seat of a college Avhich has always been dear to a large
portion of the Presbyterian Church.       Here a large
number of her sons received their education ; for after
the union of the two dissentient parties, in 1753,
nearly all candidates for the ministry, in the Presby-
terian Church, finished their education in Nassau Hall.
And to this day no literary institution enjoys more
favour and is held in higher estimation than this vene-
84              THE LOG COLLEGE.
rable college. May her trustees and instructers never
forget the principles on which the institution was
founded.
     A
     venerable friend,* in conversing with the writer on
the subject of the Log College, observed that this
humble institution was not only the germ of New Jer-
sey College, but several other colleges, which have
been useful to the church and state, and have risen
to high estimation in the country ; and mentioned Jef-
ferson, Hampden Sidney, and Washington College in
Virginia all which were founded and taught originally
          ;


by students from Princeton.      And we need not stop
here, for these in their turn have given rise to many
other schools and colleges, where the same system of
education, and the same principles of religion are
adopted.   Thus we see how much good may arise from
a small beginning. As the stately oak originated in a
small acorn, so an obscure school in the midst of the
forest becomes a nursery, from which proceed, not
only eminent men, but other and higher schools of
learning, by which our country is enlightened and
adorned.   Let this fact encourage all who have it in
their power, to institute good schools of useful and
solid learning, and to be liberal in encouraging and
endowing academies and colleges, and aiding poor
scholars who possess talents to acquire a liberal
education.
   If our free institutions are long preserved, it will be
by the means, under Providence, of religion and learn-
ing.   Without the benign influence of knowledge and
virtue, a free republican government cannot long exist
and without the influence of religion and good educa-
tion, men are not fit for such freedom as is now ,



enjoyed under our free and happy government.          The
immigration of so many thousand foreigners into our
country, renders it doubly necessary to exert every
nerve to diSuse knowledge and sound principles of
religion among the people. Let us have public schools,
                 *   Rev. Matthew Brown, D. D.
           COLLEGE OF NEW JERSEY.                    85

supported by the   state, normal schools for the educa-
tion of teachers,and parochial schools, in Avhich every
denomination may inculcate that religion which they
believe to be founded in truth. Evangelical Christiana
need not contend about what shall be taught in
schools, for if those truths in which they are all
agreed, shall be faithfully inculcated on our youth,
there will not be any very glaring defect in the system
of religious instruction. Those points in which they
differ may be reserved for their consideration at a
riper age.   But let the Bible he the text-hook in every
school, whether high or low.

       8
                         CHAPTER VIIL


                 THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL.


Synod of Philadelphia establish a School   —Located at New London —Mr.
                          —                                 —
  Alison the first Teacher Negotiation with Yale College Letter to
                 —
  President Clapp Synod of New York form the enterprise of establish-
  ing a College.


   As we have given a brief history of the Log College,
the first school erected within the bounds of the Pres-
byterian Chui-ch in tliis country, and also of the 'New
Jersey College, of which it was the germ, it will not
be considered an unsuitable digression to say some-
thing of another school, which was established by the
Synod of Philadelphia, after the rupture which has
been described took place. The want of an institu-
tion of classical and scientific education was deeply
felt but what course to pursue was a problem not easy
     ;


to be solved.   The Log College had been in successful
operation about fifteen years before the exclusion of
the New Brunswick Presbytery but it appears, from
                                             ;


the statement of a former chapter, that it had never
given general satisfaction to the Synod.       And now
this school and all its friends and supporters were
separated from the Synod        so that the need of a
                                     ;


school, where candidates might obtain at least the
ground-work of a liberal education, was felt to be
urgent.    This matter, therefore, became the subject
of frequent deliberation and mutual consultation among
the ministers.       A
                    public meeting Avas at length agreed
upon, and the business was entered upon in good ear-
nest.   The Presbyteries of Philadelphia, New Castle,
         (86)
               THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL.                   87

and Donegal, appointed certain of their members to
meet in the Great Valley, Nov, 16, 1743, to take into
consideration the subject of a plan for educating young
men for the holy ministry. After conference and
deliberation, they resolved that this business could not
be properly managed unless the Synod would under-
take it they therefore referred the further consider-
           ;


ation of the subject to that reverend body, but agreed
that in the mean time a school should be opened for
the education of youth.     When this matter, the en-
suing year, was brought before the Synod, they adopted
the plan as their own, and took the school under their
care, and agreed upon the following plan for carrying
it   on.
   '"1. That there be a school kept open where all per-

sons who please may send their children, and be there
instructed gratis, in the languages, philosophy, and
divinity.
   " 2. In order to carry on this design, it is agreed that
every congregation under our care be applied to for
yearly contributions, more or less, as they can afford,
and as God may incline them to contribute, until Pro-
vidence open the door for our supporting the school in
some other way.
   " 3. That if any thing can be spared besides what is
required to support a master and tutor, that it be em-
ployed by the trustees, in buying books and other
necessaries for said school, and for the benefit of it,
as the trustees shall see proper.
   " And Mr. Alison is chosen master of said school,
and has the privilege of choosing an usher under him,
to assist him and the said Mr. Alison is exempted
                 ;


from all public business, save only attending church
judicatories, and what concerns his particular pastoral
charge.   And the Synod agree to allow Mr. Alison
twenty pounds per annum, and the usher fifteen
pounds."    They then proceeded to appoint from their
own body trustees for the management of the affairs
of the school.       To these trustees it belonged to visit
88             THELOGCOLLEGE.
the school, and direct the whole course of instruction,
and to report to the Synod the condition of the school.
(See Records of the Presbyterian Church, p. 174.)
   From what is here stated, it appears that Mr. Alison
was the pastor of a church, and consequently the school
was situated in his own vicinity. Where he received
his education is not known to the writer, but it seems
probable that he came over a probationer for we have
                                          ;


an account of his ordination in the Records referred to
above, but no account of his licensure.    Doubtless he
stood very high as a scholar in the opinion of the
Synod and from the tradition which has come down
       ;


respecting him, he was a very accomplished man. The
estimation in which he was held as a scholar may be
also inferred from the fact that he was invited to take
charge of an academy, instituted in Philadelphia, over
which he presided for many years.
   The Synod of Philadelphia had now a school under
their own care, and an able teacher; but as they had
manifested so great a reluctance to receive the pupils
of Mr. Tennent's school, without a better education
than could be afforded by a grammar-school, they
could not for consistency's sake be satisfied with the
course of instruction in their own school, where there
were no more professors than in the Log College.
They, therefore, thought of a plan of sending their
young men, for a short period, to Yale College, to re-
ceive a diploma, if they could make an arrangement
with the faculty and trustees of the college that would
suit them.    Messrs. Andrews and Cross were appointed
to write a letter to the president and corporation of
the aforesaid college.    This letter is not on record
neither is President Clapp's answer.   But on receiving
his letter they appointed a large committee to prepare
a letter in answer, which is preserved in the Records
of the Church, (pp. 185, 186, 187.)     This letter has
been several times referred to, and is an important
document to cast light on the aiVairs of the church at
tliat time and before the schism.  Several things stated
          THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL.                     89

as facts, in this narrative, depend for their authority
on this letter. It will he proper, therefore, to lay a
considerable part of it before the reader.  It serves to
show what views the Synod entertained of the Log
College, and what steps they had taken to establish a
school under the superintendence of the Synod.
   As we have neither the letter Avritten by the Synod
to President Clapp, nor his answer, the precise nature
of the application niade cannot now be ascertained,
but from the reply to President Clapp's letter, which
is on record, we may learn generally what the request

or proposal was which they made.    In this letter, dated
May 30, 1746, they express their thanks to the presi-
dent and fellows of Yale College, for considering their
request, and expressing a readiness to promote the in-
terests of learning and religion in the Presbyterian
Church. It appears, how'ever, that President Clapp
wished for more particular information respecting the
synodical school, and also the present state of the
Synod.    In answer to his inquiries they say " Some
                                               :


years ago our Synod found the interest of Christ's
kingdom likely to suffer in these parts for want of a
college for the education of young men.          And our
supplies from Europe, or New England, were few in
proportion to the numerous vacancies in our growing
settlements.     Mr. William Tennent set up a school
among us, where some were educated, and afterwards
admitted to the ministry, witJiout sufficient qualifica-
tions, as IV as judged hy many of the Synod. And what
made the matter look worse, those that were educated
in this private way denied the usefulness of some parts
of learning that we thought very necessary.        It was
therefore agreed to try to institute a college, and apply
to our friends in Britain, Ireland, and New England,
to assist us.     We wrote to the Association of Boston
on this head, and had a very favourable answer. But
when we were thus projecting our plan, and appointing
commissioners to Britain, &c., to promote the thing,
the war with Spain was proclaimed, which put a stop
     8*
90            THE LOG COLLEGE.
to our proceedings then.  The Synod then came to a
public agreement to take all private schools, where
young men were educated for the ministry, so far
under their care as to appoint a committee of our
Synod to examine all such as had not obtained degrees
in the European or New England colleges, and give
them certificates if they were found qualified, which
was to serve our Presbyteries instead of a college di-
ploma till better provision could be made. Mr. Gilbert
Tennent cried out that this was to prevent his father's
school from training gracious men for the ministry;
and he and some of his adherents protested against it,
and counteracted this our public agreement, admitting
men to the ministry which were judged unfit for that
office
     ; which course they persisted in, though admon-
ished and reproved by us for such unwarrantable pro-
ceedings.   While these debates subsisted, Mr. White-
field came into the country, whom they drew into their
party to encourage divisions ; and they and he have
been the sad instruments of dividing our churches.
And by his interest, Mr. Gilbert Tennent grew hardy
enough to tell our Synod he would oppose their design
of getting assistance to erect a college wherever we
should make application, and would maintain young
men at his father's school in opposition to us. This,
with his and his adherents' divisive practices, obliged
the Synod to exclude him and others of his stamp from,
their communion.    In this situation our affairs grew
worse for our vacancies were numerous, and we found
         ;


it hard in such troubles to engage gentlemen from

New England or Europe to come among us, such as
our best friends in those places could recommend as
steadfast in the faith, and men of parts and education.
Upon this the Synod erected a school in 1744. It
was agreed that the said school should be opened under
the inspection of the Synod, where the languages, phi-
losophy and divinity should be taught gratis to all
that should comply with the regulations of the school,
being persons of good character and behaviour.    They
          THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL.                     91

appointed a master and a tutor for this business, who
were to be paid by such contributions as the Synod
could obtain for this purpose and agreed from year to
                             ;


year to appoint trustees to meet twice a year to inspect
the master's diligence and method of teaching, and
direct what authors are chiefly to be read in tlie seve-
ral branches of learning to examine the scholars as to
                        ;


their proficiency and good conduct    ;apply the money
procured to such uses as they judge proper; and who
order all affairs relating to the school.   The trustees
are yearly to be accountable to the Synod, and to
make report of their proceedings and state of the
school.   And it is agreed, that after the said scholars
pass the course of study prescribed them, they shall
be publicly examined by the said trustees, and such
ministers as the Synod shall think fit to appoint."
   We are not informed that this negotiation with the
president of Yale College resulted in anything practi-
cal.   It does not appear that the Synod ever sent any
of their young men to Yale College to finish their edu-
cation.   Indeed, the necessity for such a measure soon
passed away, as the College of New Jersey in a short
time after this was instituted, and rapidly rose into
credit.   Dr. Alison, the principal of their school at
New London, was invited to Philadelphia, to take
charge of an academy, which a number of gentlemen
had erected in that city. It was not long before this
academy was constituted a college, in which Dr. Ali-
son was appointed the vice-provost and professor of
Moral Philosophy. To this institution the young men
belonging to the Synod of Philadelphia directed their
attention, and here they commonly finished their edu-
cation. But after the union of the two Synods, in 1758,
candidates from all the Presbyteries were accustomed
to resort to New Jersey College   ;  especially after Dr.
Witherspoon became the president.
   Mr. Alison's departure from the Synod's school at
New London seems to have been its death-blow. From
92             THE LOG COLLEGE.
the Records of the Synod of Philadelphia, it appears
that Dr. Alison relinquished his station without receiv-
ing the approbation, either of the Presbytery of New
Castle, of which he was a member, or of the Synod.
His course was viewed as irregular by the Synod, but
they were well satisfied with the thing itself and when
                                            ;


they met, a reference from the Presbytery of New Castle
was laid before them, relative to this matter, when the
following minute was adopted and placed on record,
viz: "The Synod having deliberately considered the
affair of Mr. Alison's removal to Philadelphia, referred
to them by the Presbytery of New Castle, judge that the
method he used is contrary to the Presbyterian plan.
Yet, considering the circumstances which urged him to
take the method he used were very pressing, and that it
was indeed almost impracticable to him to apply for the
consent of Presbytery or Synod, in the orderly way
and further, being persuaded that Mr. Alison's being
employed in such a station in the academy has a favour-
able aspect in several respects, and a very probable
tendency not only to promote the good of the public,
but also of the church, as he may be serviceable to the
interests thereof, in teaching philosophy and divinity,
as far as his obligations to the academy will permit,
we judge that his proceedings in said affair are in a
great measure excusable.     Withal, the Synod advises
that for the future its members be very cautious, and
guard against such proceedings as are contrary to our
known and approved methods in such cases."
   As we are not aware that any memoir of Dr. Francis
Alison has been published and as he was one of the
                            ;


most accomplished scholars who has adorned the Pres-
byterian Church in these United States, it seems de-
sirable to preserve his memory from utter oblivion, by
giving a large extract from the funeral sermon preached
on occasion of his death, by his friend and successor,
the Rev. John Ewing, D. D.         Dr. Alison died Nov.
29, 1777, in Pliiladclphia, where he had long resided.
                  THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL.                    93

     " This       discourse         comfort and consolation
                              administers
iindor the loss of our pious friends and relations, who have
died the death of the righteous, and had a just foundation
to entertain the hope of a glorious immortality.    Whatever
reasons wo have to mourn under the loss we sustain, by
being deprived of their counsel, their prayers, or their con-
versation    yet we have no reason to be grieved on account
              ;

of the exchange they have made, of a world of sin and sor-
row for joys inconceivable and full of glory. They have
fought the good fight of faith ; they have finished their
course   ;they are discharged from the Christian warfare, and
are exalted to an unfading crown of righteousness and glory.
These considerations afford consolation to the church of
God, and to all its members, when those who were stationed
by its glorious Head, as watchmen upon her walls, are re-
moved by death ; and particularly under the heavy stroke
which the interests of religion and learning this day feel
in America, by the much lamented death of the Rev. Dr.
Francis Alison.
   " However the partialities of friendship for the deceased
have carried funeral eulogies to a very exceptionable and un-
justifiable length on many occasions, yet I am persuaded
that you will readily acknowledge that there is but little
danger of an extreme of this kind, in paying this tribute to
the memory of a man whose private virtues commanded the
esteem of all that knew him, and whose extensive public
usefulness had erected a lasting monument to his praise.    To
be                         would argue an unpardonable in-
     silent on this occasion,
sensibility to the interests of religion and learning, and
would be an instance of injustice to the man, who for more
than forty years has supported the ministerial character
with dignity and reputation, and to whom America is greatly
indebted for that diffusion of light and knowledge, and that
spirit of liberty and inquiry which this day places many of
her sons upon a level with those of the oldest nations of
Europe.    All who knew him acknowledge that he was frank,
open, and ingenuous in his natural temper ; warm and zeal-
ous in his friendships ; catholic and enlarged in his senti-
ments ; a friend to civil and religious liberty ; abhorring the
intolerant spirit of persecution, bigotry, and superstition,
together with all the arts of dishonesty and deceit.       His
humanity and compassion led him to spare no pains nor
y4              TIIELOGCOLLEGE.
trouble in relieving and assisting the poor and distressed, by
his advice and influence, or by his own private liberality
and he has left behind him a lasting testimony of the ex-
tensive benevolence of his heart in planning, erecting, and
nursing, with constant attention and tenderness, the chari-
table scheme of the widows' fund, by which many helpless
orphans and destitute widows have been seasonably relieved
and supported ; and will, we trust, continue to be relieved
and supported so long as the Synod of New York and Phila-
delphia shall exist.
   " Blessed with a clear understanding, and an extensive
liberal education; thirsting for knowledge, and indefatiga-
ble in study through the whole of his useful life, he ac-
quired an unusual fund of learning and knowledge, which
rendered his conversation remarkably instructive, and abund-
antly qualified him for the sacred work of the ministrj', and
the painful instruction of youth in the college.       He was
truly a scribe well instructed unto the kingdom of heaven, a
workman that needed not to be ashamed, for he rightly
divided the word of truth, and was peculiarly skilful in giving
to every one his portion in due season.     In his public ex-
hibitions he was warm, animated, plain, practical, argumen-
tative, and pathetic ; and he has left a testimony in the con-
sciences of thousands, who attended upon his ministry', that
be was willing to spend and be spent to promote their salva-
tion, and that he failed not to declare to them the whole
counsel of God, while he endeavoured to save himself and
those that heard him.     And we have reason to hope, that
the bountiful Redeemer, whom he served in his spirit, has
greatly honoured him by making him instrumental in the
salvation of many, who shall be the crown of his rejoicing
in the day of the Lord.     His solicitude for the interests of
 the Redeemer's kingdom, and his desires to engage young
 men in the sacred work of the ministry, and to promote the
 public happiness, by the diffusion of religious liberty and
 learning through the once untutored wilds of America, induced
.him to open a public school in New London, about thirty
 six years ago, at which time, there was scarcely a shadow
 of learning in the Middle States ; and he generously in-
 structed all that came to him without fee or reward, account-
 ing himself amply paid by the propagation of that spirit of
 incjuir)', that thirst for learning, and those generous and
            THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL.                            95

public-spirited attempts to found       and establish colleges in
the states, which   we now sec.
   " Animated by a laudable spirit, and a generous concern
for the public good,   some gentlemen in this city erected an
academy here about thirty years ago, and invited him to
take the instruction and oversight of it.  They pursued tlie
same benevolent design until a college was afterwards added,
in which he was constituted vice-provost, and professor of
moral philosophy.     In this laborious employment he has
ever since acquitted himself with distinguished honour,
fidelity and success, to the extensive dissemination of that
public spirit which was so early raised, and so successfully
cultivated, by this faithful and industrious servant of the
public.   And to the spreading influence of those numerous
gentlemen who have received the first rudiments of their
education from him, we cannot but attribute, in a great
measure, those pleasing prospects wliich we now entertain,
of seeing the sacred lamp of science burning with a brighter
flame, and scattering its invigorating rays over the unex-
plored deserts of this extensive continent, until the whole
world be involved in the united blaze of knowledge, liberty
and religion. In short, he was a burning and a shining
                                    '


light,' and one of the brightest luminaries that ever shone
on this western world.
    " He is now discharged from the labours of mortality, and
is gone, we trust, to receive the approbation of that com-
passionate Redeemer whom he so faithfully served.       For he
often expressed his hopes in the mercy of God unto eternal
life, and told me but a few days ago, that he had no doubt but
                                        '



that, according to the tenor of the gospel covenant, he would
obtain the pardon of his sins through the great Redeemer of
mankind, and enjoy an eternity of rest and gh)ry in the
presence of God.'      It was this comfortable prospect that
animated him to uncommon fidelity and industry in all the
duties of life, and enabled him to bear the lingering dissolu-
tion of his body with patience and resignation, until he fell
asleep in Jesus.
   '' Let us, then, who
                        survive our friends, endeavour to be
followers of them who by faith and patience have inherited
the promises.   Let the solemnities of this mournful day, iu
which an afflicted family, the college in this city, the con-
96               THELOG COLLEGE.
gregation in which he so long laboured in word and in doc-
trine, the church of Christ, and the community at large, have
felt a painful wound, teach us to live the life of the righteous,
that we may also have hopes of the divine approbation at
our death.    Let those virtues and graces, which shone with
a distinguished lustre in the private life and the public con-
duct of our departed friend engage us all who have in one way
or other enjoyed the benefit of his pious and useful labours,
to remember him who has spoken to us the word of God,
and considering the issue of his conversation, imitate his
faith.   That gracious God who has told us that the righteous
shall be had in everlasting remembrance, expects that they
should concur in accomplishing that comfortable promise,
and not counteract it by burying their eminent virtues in an
ungrateful oblivion.    Let us so remember them as that we
may feel their constraining efiicacy to excite in us a laudable
emulation.
   " And now, my friends, let me close the present address
with a word to you who have long enjoyed his ministerial
labours.   You are now deprived of an opportunity of hear-
ing the word of God from his mouth ; of listening to his
warm and pathetic entreaties to be reconciled to God through
a Redeemer ; of joining with him in ardent supplications to
the throne of grace ; and of receiving any further instruc-
tions from his labours among you.       We cannot but trust,
that some of you will have reason to bless God eternally,
that he has, in his wise providence, placed you under his
ministry, while our solicitude for your salvation makes us
fear that others of you may yet remain barren and unfruit-
ful under all the cultivation of divine grace by the hand of
this faithful watchman in Israel.      You are, therefore, this
day addressed by this mournful dispensation of divine pro-
vidence, and called to make a solemn pause, and to consider
what improvement you have made of his labours ; to re-
collect the compassionate warnings he has given you of your
danger, the warm expostulations he has made with you, and
the strong cries he has often raised to the God of mercy
for your salvation.  And, if you have any grateful remem-
brance of his pious and useful labours, let me exhort and
entreat you to discover it by a constant and careful attend-
ance upon the means of grace with which you arc yet fa-
             THE NEW LONDON SCHOOL.                       97

voured.   These are appointed     to bring you to God and to
glory, to the spirits of just   men made perfect, and all the
first born sons of glory above.   It is not long before you
shall be deprived of all these golden opportunities to secure
your eternal salvation; and let this awakening consideration
excite us to speak, and you to hear the word of God, that
our mutual account at the bar of our Judge may be joyful."

      9
                      CHAPTER IX.

         MEMOIR OF THE REV. JOHN TENNENT.


    —                                  —
Birth Religious Exercises and Conversion Entrance into the ministry-
                                             —              —
  Settlement at Freehold, Monmouth County Great Success Early
  Death.


   Although       Jolin   Tennent was younger than              his
brother William, being the third son of the Rev. Wil-
liam Tennent, Sen., yet, on several accounts, it seems
expedient to place the short memoir of him before that
of his elder brother.   It would seem from all that we
can learn respecting these men, that John was licensed
to preach the gospel before William.     This was pro-
bably owing to the fact that William Tennent, jr.
suflfered much loss of time by severe sickness, as will
hereafter appear. Or, it may have been the case, that
William was engaged longer than his brother in assist-
ing his father in teaching in the Log College.     But
whatever may have been the case, it is certain that the
Rev. John Tennent was settled in the ministry some
years before his brother and that the Rev. AVilliam
                                ;


Tennent was not settled as a pastor, until after the
death of his brother John, when he became his succes-
sor in the church at Freehold, as will appear when we
give a memoir of him      and it is principally on this
                            ;


account that we place John foremost.
   The third son of the Rev. William Tennent, sen.,
was born in the county of Armagh, in Ireland, in the
year 1707, Nov. 12, and was therefore only nine years
of age, Avhen his father came to America.    The whole
of his education he obtained under the paternal roof,
      (98)
          THE REV. JOHN TENNENT.                             99

and in the Log College which his father had founded
at Neshaminy.
   Of his conversion to God we have an interesting
narrative from the pen of his brother, Gilbert, written
after his death, and prefixed to some of his sermons,
which were published in a pamphlet after his decease,
from which the following is an extract

   " His conviction of his sin, danger, and misery, was the
most violent in degree of any I ever saw.         For several
days and nights together he was made to cry out in the
most dolorous and aifecting manner, almost evei'y moment.
The words which he used in his soul-agony were these     :
                                                             '



my bloody, lost soul  !   What shall I do ? Have mercy on
me,     God, for Christ's sake.'   Sometimes he was brought
to the very brink of despair, and would conclude, surely
God would never have mercy on such a great sinner as he
was.    And yet his life was unstained with those scandalous
extravagances by which too many in their youth are
ensnared.   His natural predominant sin was rash anger
and the worst I ever knew him guilty of was some indecent
haste in this way, on account of which he was afterwards
exceedingly humbled, and against which he became very
watchful.   His passionateness cost him many a deep sob,
hea^7^ groan, and salt tear.   After it pleased God to confer
his grace upon him, he was remarkably altered in this par-
ticular, and gained in a great measure an ascendency over
bis besetting sin.    Whilst under conviction his distress was
such as to induce him to make an open confession of his
sins to almost all that came near him, and also to beg their
prayers in his behalf at a throne of grace.       And this he
did in the most earnest and beseeching manner.             His
dolorous groans and vehement importunity were such as
greatly to aifect even strangers who came to see him.    And
he earnestly and frequently begged of God that he would
humble him to the dust, and beneath the dust.
   " One morning, about break of day, after great wrestling
through the night and day preceding, he took occasion to
speak as surprisingly as ever I heard any mortal about the
morning star, longing and praying that the blessed Jesus,
the true, the bright, the beautiful Morning Star, who brought
the light and day into a dark world, would appear in mercy
100                THE LOG COLLEGE.
to his poor soul; and then, at the rising of the sun, he
entreated that the Sun of righteousness might shine upon
his     disconsohxte, dejected, wretched soul, with beams ot
mercy and salvation.      His heart appeared to be sick, sore-
sick,   with panting after Chi-ist, so as to be ready to burst
in pieces.     I havethrough the riches of free gi-ace been
favoured with the sight of many a convinced sinner, but
never did I behold any other in such a rack of acute and
continued anguish, under the dismal apprehensions of
impending ruin and endless misery from the vengeance of
a just and holy Grod.
   " Perceiving such evident signs of deep conviction, humilia-
tion, and earnest desire, I offered to him for his comfort all
the most encouraging invitations and promises adapted to
his case ; and sometimes endeavoured to persuade him that
he had an interest in these promises, since God had wrought
in him those conditions on which the blessings were sus-
pended.    But although this would sometimes yield him a
temporary relief, yet in a little while he would break forth
again with the most doleful lamentations, complaining that
no promise in the book of God belonged to him, and deny-
ing that any of those conditions to which the promises were
made had been wrought in him. The truth is, his wound
was so deep that none but God's arm could heal it. But it
pleased God, after an agony almost uninterrupted for four
days and four nights, during which he cried out incessantly
as described above, that he would make his consolations as
eminent and conspicuous as his convictions had been sevei'e.
It is worthy of remark, that for some time before it pleased
the Almighty to shed abroad the beams of his love and
mercy on his soul, he was much exercised with sorrowful
and piercing reflections on account of his hypocrisy. He
judged himself to be a pharisee and a hypocrite, for crying
out as he had done ; and yet the sharpness of his inward
pain was such, that he could not prevent it, thei'efore he
would have all people out of the room, that he might pray
and mourn alone.
   " One morning when I went to see him, I perceived a
great alteration in his countenance; for he, who an hour
before had looked like a condemned man going to be put to
some cruel death, now appeared with a cheerful, gladsome
countenance, and spoke to me in these words     :   '  brother,
               THE REV. JOHN TENNENT.                    101

the Lord Jesus has come in mercy to my soul.       I was beg-
ging for a crumb of mercy with the dogs, and Christ has
told me that he will give me a crumb.'       Then he desired
me to thank God in prayer, which I did more than once.
He also requested me to praise God by singing part of a
psalm, which 1 complied with, and sang the 34th.       It was,
indeed, surprising to hear this person singing the praises of
God with more clearness, energy, and joy, than any of the
spectators who had crowded in on this extraordinary and
solemn occasion. And that, especially, when it is considered
that now it was ten o'clock in the forenoon, whereas at three
o'clock in the same morning he was speechless for some
minutes, and thought by all present to be expiring in death.
The consolations of God had such an influence upon him,
that about an hour or two afterwards he walked about
thirty rods to see his brother William, who was then ex-
tremely sick, nigh unto death, and thought by most to be
past all human hope of recovery.     He said he must see his
brother, to tell him what God had done for his soul, that he
might praise God on his account before he died. And when
he entered the room where his brother was lying, his joy
appeared to overflow, and he addressed him in the following
words :
          '  brother, the Lord has looked with pity on my
soul.   Let the heavens, earth, and sea, and all that in them
is, praise God !'   But being exposed too soon to the cool
air, he fell into a fever, and then called in question that
eminent discovery of God's love which he had experienced.
But it was not long before he was again comforted ; and
from this time a great change in his conversation was mani-
fest.  And while he experienced many seasons of the sealing
of God's covenant love, yet in the intervals he was often
dejected, and distressed with doubts and fears respecting
his own state.
   *' He gave the
                   best evidence of a change of heart in the
conscientious and diligent performance of all Christian
duties, even of those most opposite to our corrupt nature,
such as secret prayer and fasting. He was a tender-hearted,
courteous relative, and of a very sympathetic spirit.      His
respectful and aflFectionate treatment of his reverend and
aged father, and his kind mother, merits an honourable men-
tion.   His great soul disdained any thing that was mean,
and inclined him to the most noble and generous actions
that were within his power.
          9*
102                THE LOG COLLEGE.
   " He was endowed by his Creator with a natural quick-
ness of apprehension, copiousness of fancy, and fluency of
expression, which served to qualify him eminently for the
oifice   of a preacher.   He had made no contemptible progress
in the learned languages, and also in philosophical and theo-
logical studies ; but he particularly excelled in the polemical
and casuistical branches of divinity. He was well known to
be an expert disputant and casuist ; but that which crowned
his other attainments, and made them trppear with beauty
and lustre, was his unfeigned and eminent piety.
   ''
      His attainments in the Christian gi-aces were eminently
conspicuous in the following particulars. First, his humility.
He was wont to speak of himself in the most abasing terms,
saying that he thought himself one of the worst creatures
the creation bore; and on his dying bed he desired his
                   any funeral encomiums upon him when
relations to forbear
he was gone, for he declared with vehemence that he was
not worthy of them.   When admitted to preach, he would
often,    in his private studies, take the Bible in his   hand,
and would walk l^p and down the room weeping and
mourning, that although there was a treasury of precious
truth contained in that blessed book, he understood so little
of them.      A sense of the greatness of the ministerial work,
and of his ignorance and unfitness for it, was often a very
oppressive burden to him. It was a striking evidence of the
low opinion which he entertained of himself, that he never
could be persuaded that a holy God would bless the labours
of a person every way so mean and so unworthy as he felt
himself to be. And when informed that certain persons had
been convinced under his ministry, he could not for some
time believe that the work was genuine, imtil further con-
viction was afibrded by bright and incontestable evidences.
   *' His love to Christ was manifest to all who had the
                                                         op-
portunity of hearing his earnest and imjiortunate prayers.
Indeed, Christ and he crucified was the end at which he
aimed, the sacred centre in which all the lines of his life
terminated.    Christ was the object of his supreme love and
highest admiration.
   ''
      He possessed also a flaming zeal for the establishment
and promotion of the Messiah's kingdom. It was his oft-
repeated petition that God would make him serviceable to
his church, and that he would not suflfer him to live merely
           THE REV. JOHN TENNENT.                     103

to devour the alms of the church, but that he would rather
remove him to himself, before he became useless."

  When Mr. John Tennent had finished his preparatory
studies in the Log College, he presented himself to the
Presbytery of Philadelphia; and after passing with
credit the usual trials he was licensed to preach the
gospel.
   Soon after Mr. Tennent's licensure he visited the
congregation of Freehold, in the county of Monmouth,
New Jersey, which w^as now Avithout a pastor. This
congregation owed its origin to some Scotch people
who Avere cast on the Jersey shore ; the vessel Cale-
donia, in which they sailed, having been stranded on
our coast.  These people, being thus by the providence
of God cast upon this land, determined to take up
their abode in the country, near to the place where
they reached the shore ; and being Presbyterians, they
were not content to live without the ordinances of
public worship, according to the creed and usages of
the church of Scotland.    They accordingly set about
building a house of worship, which was situated a
few miles east of the present church of Freehold,
where the remains of the old building and a grave-
yard are yet to be seen. Mr. Boyd, the first licentiate
of the Presbytery of Philadelphia w^as their first
minister, but died within less than two years.     For
some time afterwards this congregation was supplied
by the Rev. Joseph Morgan, but he having left them
early in the year 1730, they invited young Mr. Ten-
nent to preach to them as a candidate. Being a
young man of uncommon modesty and humility, he
was very reluctant to go, and even after he had con-
sented to visit them, as his brother William, in his
letter to Mr. Prince, of Boston, informs us, he regret-
ted the engagement very much, for it seemed to him
that they were a people whom God had given up for
the abuse of the gospel.   But though he went under
this cloud of discouragement, his first labours among
104             THE LOG COLLEGE.
this people were remarkably blessed.     On his first
visithe preached four or five Sabbaths, and found
among the people a serious disposition to attend to
the concerns of their souls, and to search the Scrip-
tures to see whether the things which they heard
from the pulpit were so. And he was assisted to
preach with so much freedom, that he told his brother
William that he was fully persuaded that Christ Jesus
had a large harvest to bring home there ; and though
they were a poor broken people, yet if they called
him he would go to them, though he should be under
the necessity of begging his bread.   On the 15th of
April, 1730, they assembled, and gave him an unani-
mous call, which he accepted, and was ordained
November 19th of the same year.

   " His labours in this congregation," according to his
brother Gilbert, "were attended with three notable qualities
—  prudence, diligence, and success."  Though the time was
short which he was permitted to remain among them, yet
his labours were abundant.     His race was swift and vehe-
ment ; and his heart was so fixed on the work of God, that
he could not be persuaded to desist from his public labours,
even when his body was emaciated and debilitated by a con-
sumptive disease, and when, in the judgment of physicians,
it was prejudicial to his broken constitution.
   " In his public discourses, not to mention the justness of
his method, the beauty of his style, and the fluency of his
expression, by which he chained his not unwilling hearers
to his hps, he was very awakening and terrible to unbelievers,
in denouncing and describing with the most vehement pathos
and awful solemnity the terrors of an offended Deity, the
threats of a broken law, and the miseries of a sinful state.
And this subject he insisted much upon, because he, witii
many others, found it the most effectual and successful means
to alarm secure sinners.    He used a close, distinguishing,
and detecting method, in the application of his sermons;
which, with his pungent mode of expression, was very pierc-
ing and solemn.   But, as Dr. Watts observes of Mr. Gouge,
he knew the pity of Immanuel's heart, as well as the terrors
of Jehovah's hand.   He was as tender and compassionate in
             THE REV, JOHN TENNENT.                        105

Lis atlJresscs to gracious souls as faithful to brandish and
apply the law's lancet to the secure and he was as willing
                                      :


to do the one as the other.     But, indeed, he was very cau-
tious of misapplying the different portions of the word to his
hearers ; or of setting before them only a common mess, and
leaving it to them to divide among themselves, as their fancy
and humour directed them ; for he well knew that was the
bane of preaching.
   " Once more he was a successful preacher.
                 ,                                  When he
was under    trials  for the ministry, he was much exercised
with doubts, difficulties, and distresses about his call to this
great and awful trust ; but it pleased God to dissipate these
clouds, and to afford to his perplexed and anxious mind
abundant satisfaction respecting this matter, by the numer-
ous seals which crowned his public labours for as the famous
                                            ;

Rutherford says, it is not probable that God would seal a
                      '


blank.'   It may be truly said of- him, that he gained more
poor sinners to Christ, in that little compass of time which
he had to improve in the ministerial work, which was about
three and a half years, than many in the space of twenty,
thirty, forty, or fifty years.  Many souls have and will have
reason, through eternity, to bless God that ever they saw
him.    But though he was thus honoured with smiles of
heaven upon his labours and though favoured with the kind
                          ;

regards of a loving and generous people, who had it been
possible would have plucked out their own eyes and have
given them to him ; so that no minister before was ever the
object of a more respectful regard and sympathy      ;
                                                        yet was
he far from being exalted in his own mind, but through
grace retained a just, grateful, and humble sense of God's
distinguishing goodness, and his own unworthiness.
   " As he drew near to his end, his love for his people and
concern for their welfare increased.    He would often express
himself to one of his brothers in such language as the fol-
lowing,  'I am grieved for my people, for I fear they will be
left to wander as sheep without a shepherd ; or get one that
will pull down what I have poorly endeavoured to build up.'
His brother, who watched with him in his sickness, has fre-
quently overheard him in the deep silence of the night,
wrestling with God by prayer, sobs and tears, for his people.
Yea, when so reduced by consumption that he could scarce
walk alone, he bore the pains of this lingering disease with
lOG                 THE LOG COLLEGE.
unbroken patience, and    silent submission to his Father's
pleasure, until    pleased Grod to open a door of escape to
                    it

his captive soul, through the ruins of his decayed frame.
                          —
   " Uu Saturday evening the last evening of his life he—
was seized with a violent pang of death which was thought
by his attendants to be his last ; from which unexpectedly
recovering, and observing a confusion among them, he ad-
dressed one, whom he saw uncommonly affected, with a
cheerful countenance, in the following words, ' I would not
have you think the worse of the ways of holiness, be-
cause you see me in such agonies of distress, for I know
there is a crown of glory in heaven for me, which I
shall shortly wear.'    Afterwards, in the night, he often
prayed,    Come Lord Jesus
            '
                              !     Jesus, why dost thou lin-
ger ?'   Some time before day, he repeated with humble con-
fidence the last words of David, ' Although my house be
not so with God, yet hath he made with me an everlasting
covenant, ordered in all things and sure ; for this is all my
salvation and all my desire.' — 2 Sam. xxiii. 5.
   ''About the break of day, he called his brother William
to prayer, and earnestly desired him to implore Heaven for
his speedy removal, for, he said, he longed to be gone.
About eight or nine o'clock of the next day, which was the
Sabbath, his desire was granted ; when it pleased his
Master to translate him to that great assembly of the just,
' the  church of the firstborn,' there to celebrate an eternal
Sabbath, in praises and songs of triumph.
   ''
      A  few minutes before he expired, holding his brother
William by the hand, he broke out into the following
rapturous expressions ;   ' Farewell, my brethren, farewell
father and mother ; farewell world, with all thy vain
delights.  Welcome, God and Father        —welcome, sweet
Lord Jesus      !                 —
              Welcome death welcome eternity. Amen !'
Then with a low voice, he said, Lord Jesus, come Lord
                                      '



Jesus !' And so he fell asleep in Christ, and obtained an
abundant entrance into the everlasting kingdom of his God
and Saviour."

   He was buried in the grave-yard near to the church,
where he preached, and where his tombstone may yet be
seen. The Rev. Jonathan Dickinson, of Elizabethtown,
composed for his tomb-stone, the following epitaph
         THE REV. JOHN TENNENT.                                  lOT

       "Who quick grew old in learning, virtue, grace,
         Quick finifihed, well-yielded to death';! embrace
         Whoso mouldered dust, this cabinet contains.
         Whose soul triumphant, with bright seraphs reigns   ;

         Waiting the time 'till heaven's bright concave flame,
         And the last trump repairs his ruined frame."


  Much praise cannot be awarded to the poetry of the
foregoing epitaph, but it serves to show in what
estimation Mr. Tennent was held, by one of the most
eminent theologians of his day.
  His death occurred on the 23rd day of April, 1732,
in the twenty-fifth year of his age.
   Mr. Gilbert Tennent, with the memoir of his brother
John, published also one of his sermons.  The subject
is "Regeneration;"    and is treated in a clear dis-
criminating manner.
   As far as can be judged from the accounts Avhich
have come down to us, respecting this young pastor,
and from the aforesaid discourse, there is reason to
conclude, that both in piety and talents, he was not
inferior to any one of his brothers and that if he had
                                             ;


lived to the usual period of human life, he would have
been "a burning and a shining light" in the church.
    The people of his charge were greatly attached to
him, and exceedingly lamented his death.        There is
still extant, the fragment of an old manuscript book,

kept by the session of his church, in which is contained
the following entry

  " A mournful providence and cause of great huniiliatiou
to this poor congregation, tobe bereaved in the liower of
youth, of the most laborious, successful, well-quulitied, and
pious pastor this age afforded ; though but a youth of
twenty-four years five months and eleven days."


  In this record he is called, " the reverend and dear
Mr. John Tennent."*

                      * See Appendix, No. II.
108           THE LOG COLLEGE.
  It may be gratifying to some to   know the names of
some of the principal          which constituted the
                        families
congregation of Freehold, which have been taken from
the record before mentioned.   Among them we find
Ker, Craig, Forman, Anderson, Newall, Gordon, Lloyd,
Crawford, Henderson, Robinson, Rhea, Watson, Wilson,
Campbell, Covenhoven, Little, Cumming, English, &c.
                        CHAPTER           X.


        MEMOIR OF THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR.


                    —                                  —
Preliminary Remarks Mr. Tennent's birth and education Sickness, ap-
                           —                                   —
  parent death, and recoverj' State of his mind during his trance Set-
                                                               —
  tlement and ordination as successor to his brother at Freehold Mar-
      —
  riage                                                    —
         Character as a pastor and success in the ministry Trial for
          —                                  —
  Perjury Extraordinary means of deliverance The close of life.


   The following memoir of the Rev. William Tennent,
jr., was originally published in " The Assembly's Mis-
sionary Magazine," in the year 1806      and although it
                                                 ;


was not accompanied Avith the author's name, it was
well understood to be from the pen of the Hon. Elias
Boudinot, LL. D,, who was well acquainted with all the
members of this remarkable family. But although Dr.
Boudinot prepared this memoir for the press, the greater
part of the narrative was written, at his request, by the
late Dr. Henderson, of Freehold, one of the elders of
the Freehold church, and a man distinguished for his
piety, integrity, veracity, and patriotism.    This origi-
nal manuscript is now in the possession of the Histori-
cal Society of New Jersey.    From it we learn that the
history of Mr. Tennent's trial, which occurred soon
after his settlement in the ministry, and when Dr.
Henderson was too young to be a competent witness,
was received from his father, who was then an elder in
the church of Freehold, of which Mr. William Tennent
was the pastor. There can be no doubt about the au-
thenticity of the facts here stated, however they may
be accounted for.    The writer has heard the same facts
from elderly persons who never had seen this published
account and they were so public, that thev were gene-
           ;

                                            '
      10                                       (109)
110                 THE LOG COLLEGE.
rally known, not only to the people of this part of the
country, but they were currently reported and fully
believed in other states.  The writer has heard them
familiarly talked of in Virginia, from his childhood.
It is a matter of some regret that the record of this
trial cannot be found, yet papers have been discovered
among the archives of the state, in which reference is
made to this transaction. The following is the narra-
tive   :




  " Among the duties which every generation owes to those
who are to succeed it, we may reckon the careful delinea-
tion of the characters of those whose example deserves          and
may invite imitation.    Example speaks louder than precept,
and living practical religion has a much greater       effect    on
mankind than argument or eloquence. Hence, the lives of
pious men become the most important sources of instruction
and warning    to   posterity; while their exemplary conduct
affords the best commentary on the religion they professed.
But when such men have been remarkably favoured of Grod
with unusual degrees of light and knowledge, and have been
honoured by the special and extraordinary influences of his
Holy Spirit, and by the most manifest and wonderful inter-
positions of divine Providence in their behalf, it becomes a
duty of more than common obligation to hand down to pos-
terity the principal events of their lives, together with such
useful inferences as they naturally suggest.       A   neglect of
this duty, even by persons who may be conscious of the
want of abilities necessary for the complete biographer, is
greatly culpable ; for, if the strictest attention be paid to the
truth of the facts related, and all exaggeration or partial
representation be carefully avoided, the want of other furni-
ture can be no excuse for burying in oblivion that conduct,
which, if known, might edify and benefit the world.
  " The writer of these memoirs has difiiculties of a peculiar
kind to encounter, in attempting to sketch the life of that
modest, humble, and worthy man, whose actions, exercises,
and sentiments he wishes to record. Worldly men, who are
emulous to transmit their names to following ages, take care
to leave such materials for the future historian as may se-
cure the celebrity which they seek.    But the humble fol-
lower of the meek aud lowly Jesus, whose sole aim is the
           THE REV. W AI     .   TE NN ENT,     JR.       Ill

glory of Orod iu the welfare of iuiuiortal souls, goes on from
day to day as seeing Him who is invisible, careful to ap-
prove himself only to the Searcher of hearts, regardless of
worldly fame or distinction, and leaving it to his heavenly
Father to rcwai'd him openly in the day of final account.
The writer of such a man's life must principally rely on a
personal acquaintance with him, and the communications of
his intimate friends, for the information which shall be im-
parted to the public. In these circumstances it is peculiarly
embarrassing, if some of the facts to be recorded are of such
a nature that it is most desirable to have their authenticity
so fully established, that incredulity shall be confounded,
and the sneer of the sceptical and profane lose its effect.
But the writer of the following narrative, though placed in
these circumstances, and having such facts to detail, has
nevertheless determined to proceed.     He has refreshed and
corrected his own recollection by the most careful inquiries
that he could possibly make of others, until he is well as-
sured that what he shall state is incontestable truth.   From
the very nature of several things of which an account will
be given, thej'- do not indeed admit of any other direct tes-
timony than that of the remarkable man to whom they
relate.  But if there ever was a person who deserved to be
believed unreservedly on his word, it was he.     He possessed
an integrity of soul, and a soundness of judgment, which
did actually secure him an unlimited confidence from all
who knew him.        Every species of deception, f:dsehood, and
exaggeration he abhorred and scorned.       He was an Israelite
indeed, in whom there was no guile.       With such materials,
then, as have been mentioned, and for a work of such char-
acter as has been hinted, the writer has undertaken his task.
He has undertaken what he would most gladly have re-
signed to an abler hand ; but from which, as no other ofiered,
he dared not withhold his own.       He could wish that specu-
lative and even unbelieving minds might be instructed and
convinced by these memoirs.       But his principal object, and
that in which he trusts he shall not be entirely disappointed,
is to direct, assist, and comfort pious souls, groaning under
the pressure of the calamities which they often have to
endure in their pilgrimage through the wilderness of this
world.
  '*   The Rev. Wm. Tennent, of Freehold, New Jersey, was
112                 THE LOG COLLEGE.
the second son of the Rev. Wm. Tennent, sen., and was
born ou the 3d day of June, 1705, in the county of
Armagh, in Ireland, and was just turned of thirteen years
when he arrived in America. He applied himself with
much zeal and industry to his studies, and made great pro-
ficiency in the languages, particularly in the Latin. Being
early impressed with a deep sense of divine things, he soon
determined to follow the example of his father and elder
brother, by devoting himself to the service of God in the
ministry of the gospel.    His brother Gilbert being called
to the pastoral charge of the church at New Brunswick, in
New Jersey, and making a very considerable figure as a
useful and popular preacher, William determined as he had
completed his course in the languages, to study divinity
under his brother. Accordingly he left his father's house
with his consent, and by his advice, and went to New
Brunswick. At his departure from home, which was con-
sidered as his setting out in  life, his father addressed him

with great            commending him to the favour and
              afiection,
protection of that God, from whom he himself had received
so much mercy, and who had directed him in all his migra-
tions.  He gave him a small sum of money, as the amount
of all he could do for him, telling him that if he behaved
well and did his duty, this was an ample provision for him
and if he should act otherwise, and prove ungrateful to a
kind and gracious God, it was too much and more than he
deserved.  Thus, with a pittance, and the blessing of a
pious and affectionate parent, of more consequence than
thousands of pounds, the young student set out in the
world.
  " After a regular course of study in theology, Mr. Ten-
nent was preparing for his examination by the Presbytery
as a candidate for the gospel ministry.   His intense appli-
cation   affected            and brought on a pain in his
                    his health,
breast, and a slight hectic.   He soon became emaciated,
and at length was like a living skeleton. His life was now
threatened.   He was attended by a physician, a young
gentleman who was attached to him by the strictest and
warmest friendship. He grew worse and worse, till little
hope of life was left. In this situation, his spirits failed
him, and he began to entertain doubts of his final happiness.
He was conversiui,' one morning with his brother in Latin,
          THE REV. W M        .   TENNENT     ,   JR.     113

on tlie state of his soul, wlieu he fainted and died away.
After the usual time he was laid out on a board, according
to the common practice of the country, and the neighbour-
hood were invited to attend his funeral on the next day.
In the evening, his physician and friend returned from a
ride in the country, and was afflicted beyond measure at the
news of his death. He could not be persuaded that it was
certain ; and on being told that one of the persons who had
assisted in laying out the body thought he had observed a
little tremor of the flesh under the arm, although the body
was cold and stifl", he endeavoured to ascertain the fact.
He first put his own hand into warm water, to make it as
sensible as possible, and then felt under the arm, and at the
heart, and affirmed that he felt an unusual warmth, though
no one else could. He had the body restored to a warm
bed, and insisted that the people who had been invited to
the funeral should be requested not to attend.      To this the
brother objected as absurd, the eyes being sunk, the lips
discoloured, and the whole body cold and stiff.      However,
the doctor finally prevailed, and all probable means were
used to discover symptoms of returning life.          But the
third day arrived, and no hopes were entertained of success
but by the doctor, who never left him night nor day.       The
people were again invited, and assembled to attend the
funeral.    The doctor still objected, and at last confined his
request for delay to one hour, then to half an hour, and
finally to a quarter of an hour.    He had discovered that the
tongue was much swollen, and threatened to crack.           He
was endeavoring to soften it, by some emollient ointment
put upon it with a feather, when the brother came iu, about
the expiration of the last period, and mistaking what the
doctor was doing for an attempt to feed him, manifested
some resentment, and iu a spirited tone said, It is shame-
                                                  '


ful to be feeding a lifeless corpse;' and insisted with
earnestness, that the funeral should immediately proceed.
At this critical and important moment, the body to the great
alarm and astonishment of all present opened its eyes, gave
a dreadful groan and sunk again into apparent death. This
put an end to all thoughts of burying him, and every effort
was again employed in hopes of bringing about a speedy
resuscitation.   In about an hour the eyes again opened, a
heavy groan proceeded from the body, and again all
        10*
114                THE LOU COLLEGE.
appearance of animation vanished.  In another hour life
seemed to return with more power, and a complete revival
took place to the great joy of the family and friends,
and to the no small astonishment and conviction of very
many who had been ridiculing the idea of restoring to life
a dead body.
   " Mr. Tennent continued in so weak and low a state for
six weeks, that great doubts were entertained of his final re-
covery. However, after that period he recovered much faster,
but it was about twelve months before he was completely re-
stored.   After he was able to walk the room, and to take
notice of what passed around him, on a Sunday afternoon,
his sister, who had staid from church to attend him, was
reading in the Bible, when he took notice of it and asked
her what she had in her hand.    She answered that she was
reading the Bible.       He replied, * What is the Bible ? I
know not what you mean.' This affected the sister so much
that she burst into tears, and informed him that he was
once well acquainted with it.      On her reporting this to the
brother, when he returned, Mr. Tennent was found, upon
examination, to be totally ignorant of every transaction of
life previous to his sickness.      He could not read a single
word, neither did he seem to have any idea of what it meant.
As soon as he became capable of attention, he was taught
to read and write, as children are usually taught, and after-
wards began to learn the Latin language under the tuition
of his brother.     One day, as he was reciting a lesson in Cor-
nelius Nepos, he suddenly started, clapped his hand to his
head, as if something had hurt him, and made a pause. His
brother asking him what was the matter, he said that he
felt a sudden shock in his head, and now it seemed to him
as if he had read that book before.        By degrees his recol-
lection was restored, and he could speak the Latin as fluently
as before his sickness.     His memory so completely revived,
that he gained a perfect knowledge of the past transactions
of his life, as if no difficulty had previously occurred.   This
event, at the time, made a considerable noise, and afforded,
not only matter of serious contemplation to the devout Chris-
tian, especially when connected with what follows in this
narration, but furnished a subject of deep investigation and
learned inquiry to the real philosopher and curious anatomist.
   ''
        The writer of these memoirs was greatly interested by
                  THE REV. WM. TEN KENT, JR.               115

these uncommon events ; and, on a favourable occasion, ear-
nestly pressed Mr. Tennent for a minute account of wliat
his views and apprehensions were, while he lay in this ex-
traordinary state of suspended animation.  He discovered
great reluctance to enter into any explanation of his per-
ceptions and feelings, at this time ; but, being importunately
urged to do it, he at length consented, and proceeded with a
solemnity not to be described.
  " While I was conversing with my brother,' said he, ' on
      '



the state of my soul, and the fears I had entertained for my
future welfare, I found myself, in an instant, in another state
of existence, under the direction of a superior being, who
ordered me to follow him.    I was accordingly wafted along,
I know not how, till I beheld at a distance an ineffable glory,
the impression of which on my mind it is impossible to com-
municate to mortal man.        I immediately reflected on my
                                  —
happy change, and thought, Well, blessed be God       !   I am
safe at last, notwithstanding all my fears.    I saw an innu-
merable host of happy beings surrounding the inexpressible
glory, in acts of adoration and joyous worship; but I did
not see any bodily shape or representation in the glorious ap-
pearance.    I heard things unutterable.  I heard their songs
and hallelujahs of thanksgiving and praise with unspeak-
able rapture.    I felt joy unutterable and full of glory.    I
then applied to my conductor, and requested leave to join
the happy throng ; on which he tapped me on the shoulder,
and   said,   '
                  You must return to the earth.'  This seemed
like a sword       through   my heart.
                                    In an instant, I recollect
to have seen my brother standing before me, disputing with
the doctor.    The three days during which I had appeared
lifeless seemed to me not more than ten or twenty minutes.
The idea of returning to this world of sorrow and trouble
gave me such a shock, that I fainted repeatedly.'    He added,
*
  Such was the effect on my mind of what I had seen and
heard, that if it be possible for a human being to live en-
tirely above the world and the things of it, for some time
afterwards I was that person.    The ravishing sound of the
songs and hallelujahs that I heard, and the very words ut-
tered, were not out of my ears when awake, for at least three
years.    All the kingdoms of the earth were in my sight as
nothing and vanity ; and so great were my ideas of heavenly
glory, that nothing which did not in some measure relate
to it could command       my serious attention.'
116                      THE LOG COLLEGE.
   " The author has been particularly solicitous to obtain
every confirmation of this extraordinary event in the life of
Mr. Tennent.     He accordingly wrote to every person he
could think of, likely to have conversed with Mr. T. on the
subject.   He received several answers ; but the following
letter from the worthy successor of Mr. Tennent, in the pas-
toral charge of his church, will answer for the author's pur-
pose :


            Monmouth, New Jersey, December 10th, 1805.
              "   '




   "   '   Dear S'ir :   —
                   Agreeably to your request, I now send you
in writing the remarkable accounts, which I sometime since
gave you verbally, respecting your good friend, my worthy
predecessor, the late Rev. William Tennent, of this place.
In a very free and feeling conversation on religion, and on
the future rest and blessedness of the people of God, (while
travelling together from Monmouth to Princeton,) I men-
tioned to Mr. Tennent, that I should be highly gratified in
hearing, from his own mouth, an account of the trance
which he was said to have been in, unless the relation would
be disagreeable to himself      After a short silence, he pro-
ceeded, saying, that he had been sick with a fever, that the
fever increased, and he by degrees sunk under it.        After
some time (as his friends informed him) he died, or appeared
to die, in the same manner as persons usually do ; that in
laying him out, one happened to draw his hand under the
left arm, and perceived a small tremor in the flesh ; that he
was laid out, and was cold and stiff. The time for his fune-
ral was appointed, and the people collected ; but a young
doctor, his particular friend, pleaded with great earnestness
that he might not then be buried, as the tremor under the
arm continued ; that his brother Grilbcrt became impatient
with the young gentleman, and said to him,    'What ! a man
not dead, loho is cold and stiff as a stake ?'  Tlie importu-
nate young friend, however, prevailed  ; another day was ap-
pointed for the burial, and the people separated.      During
this interval many means were made use of to discover, if
possible, some symptoms of life, but none appeared except-
ing the tremor.   The doctor never left him for three nights
and three days. The people again met to bury him, but
could not even then obtain the consent of his friend, who
pleaded for one hour more ; and when that was gone, he
          THE REV. WM. TENNENT,                    JR.      117

  pleaded for half au hour, and then for a quarter of an hour
  when, just at the close of this period, on which hung his
  last hope, iMr. Tennent opened his eyes.       They then pried
  open his mouth, which was stiif, so as to get a cjuill into it,
  through which some liquid was conveyed iuto the stomach,
 and he by degrees recovered.
     '" This account, as intimated before, Mr. Tennent said he
 received from his friends.     I said to him, ' Sir, you seem to
 be one indeed raised from the dead, and may tell us what it
 is to die, and what you were sensible of while in that state.'
 He replied in the following words    :
                                          '
                                                     —
                                           As (o (^i/inij I found
 my fever increase, and I became weaker and weaker, until
 all at once I found myself in heaven, as I thought.        I saw
 no shape as to the Deity, hut glori/ all unutterable !' Here
he paused, as though unable to find words to express his
views, let his bridle foil, and lifting up his hands, proceeded,
 ' I    can say, as St. Paul did, I heard and I saw things all
unutterable ; I saw a great multitude before this glory, ap-
parently in the height of bliss, singing most melodiously.
I was transported with my own situation, viewing all my
troubles ended and my rest and glory begun, and was about
to join the great and happy multitude, when one came to
me, looked me full in the face, laid his hand upon my shoul-
der and said,    '
                     You must go back.' These words went
through me ; nothing could liave shocked me more ; I cried
out. Lord, must I go back ?       With this shock I opened my
eyes in this world.        When I saw I was in the world I
fainted, then came to, and fainted for several times, as one
probably would naturally have done in so weak a situation.
     ''
         ' Mr. Tennent  further informed me that he had so en-
tirely lost the recollection of his past life, and the benefit of
his former studies, that he could neither understand what
was spoken to him, nor write, nor read his own name. That
he had to begin all anew, and did not recollect that he had
over read before, until he had again learned his letters, and
was able to pronounce the monosyllables, such as thee and
fliou.      But, that as his strength returned, which was very
slowly, his memory also returned.       Yet, notwithstanding
the extreme feebleness of his situation, his recollection of
what he saw and heard while in heaven, as he supposed, and
the sense of divine things, which he there obtained, con-
tinued all the time in their full strength, so that he was cou-
118                      THE LOG COLLEGE.
tinually in          something like an ecstacy of mind.              '
                                                                         And/
said he,       '
                   for three years the sense of divine things contin-
ued so great, and everything else appeared so completely
vain, when  compared to heaven, that could I have had the
world for stooping down for it, I believe I should not have
                      "
thought of doing it.'

   " It   is       not surprising, that after so affecting an account,
strong solicitude should have been felt for further information
as to the words, or at least the subjects of praise and ado-
ration, which Mr. Teunent had heard.          But when he was
requested to communicate these, he gave a decided negative,
adding,   You will know them, with many other particulars,
           '


                                                              ;'
hereafter, as you will find the whole among my papers
alluding to his intention of leaving the writer hereof his
executor, which precluded any further solicitation.*
   " The pious and candid reader is left to his own reflections
on this very extraordinary occurrence. The facts have beoi
stated, and they are unquestionable.     The writer will only
ask whether it be contrary to revealed truth or to reason, to
believe that in every age of the world, instances like that
which is here recorded have occurred, to furnish liviny tes-
tiviony of the reality of the invisible world, and of the infi-
nite importance of eternal concerns ?
   ''As soon as circumstances would permit, Mr. Tennent
was licensed, and began to preach the everlasting gospel
with great zeal and success. The death of his brother John,
who had been some time settled as minister of the Presby-
terian church at Freehold, in the county of Monmouth, New
Jersey, left that congregation in a destitute state.    They
had experienced so much spiritual benefit from the indefa-
tigable labours and pious zeal of this able minister of Jesus


  * "It was so ordered,        in   the course of divine Providence, tbat the
writer was sorely disappointed in his expectation of obtaining the papers
here alluded to. ' Such, however, was the will of heaven     Mr. Tenneut's
                                                             !




death happened during the revolutionary war, when the enemy separated
the writer from him, so as to render it impracticable to attend him on a
dying bed; and before it was possible to get to his house, after his death
(the writer being with the American army at the Valley-Forge), his son
came from Charleston, and lOok his mother, and his father's papers and
property, and returned to Carolina. About tifty miles from Charleston, the
son was suddenly taken sick and died among entire strangers; and never
since, though the writer was left executor to the son also, could any trace
of the father's papers be discovered by him."
            THE REV, W M          .   T E X X E ?; T     ,    JR.     119

Christ, that they soon turned their attention to his brother,
"who was received on trial, and after one year was found to
be no unworthy successor to so excellent a predecessor. In
October, 1733, Mr. Tennent was regularly ordained their
pastor, and continued so through the whole of a pretty long
life ;   one of the best proofs of ministerial fidelity.
   " Although his salary was small,           (it   is       thought under
£ 100,) yet the glebe belonging to the church was an excel-
lent plantation, on   which he lived, and which, with care
and good farming, was capable of maintaining a family with
comfort.    But his inattention to the things of this world
was so great, that he left the management of his temporal
concerns wholly to a faithful servant, in whom he placed
great confidence.   After a short time he found his worldly
aiFairs were becoming embarrassed.     His steward reported
to him that he was in debt to the merchant between 201.
and 30?., and he knew of no means of payment, as the crops
had fallen short. Mr. Tennent mentioned this to an inti-
mate friend, a merchant of New York, who was on a visit
at his house.    His friend told him that this mode of life
would not do, that he must get a wife to attend to his tem-
poral affairs, and to comfort his leisure hours by conjugal
endearments.     He smiled at the idea, and assured him it
never could be the case unless some friend would provide
one for him, for he knew not how to go about it.         His
friend told him he was ready to undertake the business
that he had a sister-in-law, an excellent woman, of great
piety, a widow of his own age, and one peculiarly suited in
all respects to his character and circumstances.   In short,
that she was every thing he ought to look for ; and if he
would go with him to New York the next day, he would
settle the negotiation for him.    To this he soon assented.
The next evening found him in that city, and before noon
the day after, he was introduced to Mrs. Noble.     He was
much pleased with her appearance ; and when left alone
with her, abruptly told her that he supposed her brother
had informed her of his errand ; that neither his time nor
inclination would suffer him to use much ceremony, but that
if she approved the measure, he would attend his charge on
the next Sabbath and return on Monday, be married and
immediately take her home. The lady with some hesitation
and difficult}^ at last consented, being convinced that his
120                 THE LOa COLLEGE.
situation   and circumstances rendered it proper. Thus in
one week she found herself mistress of his house.           She
proved a most invaluable treasure to him, more than answer-
ing every thing said of her by an affectionate brother.     She
took the care of his temporal concerns upon her, extricated
him from debt, and by a happy union of prudence and econo-
my, so managed all his worldly business that in a few years
his circumstances became easy and comfortable.       In a word,
in her was literally fulfilled the declaration of Solomon, that
' a virtuous woman is a crown to her husband, and      that her
price is far above rubies.'      Besides several children who
died in infancy, he had by her three sons who attained the
age of manhood ; John, who studied physic, and died in the
West Indies when about thirty-three years of age ; William,
a man of superior character, and minister of the Independent
church in Charleston, South Carolina, who died the latter
end of September or beginning of October, A. D. 1777,
about thirty-seven years old ; and Gilbert, who also practised
physic, and died at Freehold before his father, aged twenty-
eight years.     Few parents could boast three sons of a more
manly or handsome appearance; and the father gave them
the most liberal education that the country could afford.
    " Mr. Tennent's inattention to earthly things continued
till his eldest son was about three years old, when he led

 him out into the fields on a Lord's day after public worship.
 The design of the walk was for religious meditation. As he
 went along, accidentally casting his eye on the child, a
 thought suddenly struck him, and he asked himself this
 question   :  Should God in his providence take me hence,
                '



 what would become of this child and his mother, for whom
 I have never taken any personal care to make provision ?
 How can I answer this negligence to God and to them V
 The impropriety of his inattention to the relative duties of
 life, which God had called him to, and the consideration of
 the sacred declaration, that he who does not provide for
                         '



 his own household has denied the faith, and is worse than
 an infidel,' had such an impressive effect on his mind, that
 it almost deprived him of his senses.      He saw his conduct,
 which before he thought arose entirely from a deep sense of
 divine things, in a point of light in which he never before
 had viewed it. He immediately attempted to return home,
 but so great was his distress, that it was with diflSculty he
            THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR.                     121

could get along ; till, all at once, he was relieved by as sud-
denly recurring to that text of scripture, which came into
                                        ' But unto the tribe of
his mind with extraordinary force    :



Levi Moses gave not any inheritance; the Lord God of Israel
was their inheritance.' Such, however, was the effect of
this unexpected scene on Mr. Tennent's mind and judgment,
that ever afterwards he prudently attended to the temporal
business of life, still, however, in perfect subordination to
the great things of eternity ; and became fully convinced
that God was to be faithfully served, as well by discharging
relative duties in his love and fear, as by the more imme-
diate acts of devotion.   He clearly perceived that every duty
had its proper time and place, as well as motive ; that we
had a right, and were called of God to eat and drink, and
to be properly clothed ;  and of course that care should be
taken to procure those things, provided that all be done to
the glory of God.    In the duties of a gospel minister, how-
ever, especially as they related to his pastoral charge, he
still engaged with the utmost zeal and faithfulness ; and was
esteemed by all ranks and degrees, as far as his labours ex-
tended, as a fervent, useful, and successful preacher of the
gospel.
  " His judgment of mankind was such as to give him a
marked superiority, in this respect, over his contemporaries,
and greatly aided him in his ministerial functions. He was
scarcely ever mistaken in the character of a man with whom
he conversed, though it was but for a few hours.     He had
an independent mind, which was seldom satisfied on import-
ant subjects without the best evidence that was to be had.
His manner was remarkably impressive ; and his sermons,
although seldom polished, were generally delivered with
such indescribable power, that he was truly an able and a
successful minister of the New Testament.      He could say
things from the pulpit, which, if said by almost any other
man, would have been thought a violation of propriety. But
by him they were delivered in a manner so peculiar to him-
self, and so extremely impressive, that they seldom foiled to
please and to instruct. As an instance of this, the following
anecdote is given, of the truth of which the writer was a
witness.
   " Mr. Tennent was passing through a town in the state
of New Jersey, in which he was a stranger and had never
           11
122               THE LOG COLLEGE.
preached, and stopping at a friend's house to dine, was
informed that it was a day of fasting and prayer in the
congregation, on account of a very remarkable and severe
drought, which threatened the most dangerous consequences
to the fruits of the earth.   His friend had just returned
from church, and the intermission was but half an hour.
Mr. Tennent was requested to preach, and with great diffi-
culty consented, as he wished to proceed on his journey.
At church the people were surprised to see a preacher,
wholly unknown to them, and entirely unexpected, ascend
the pulpit.    His whole appearance, being in a travelling
dress, covered with dust, wearing an old fashioned large
wig, discoloured like his clothes, and a long meagre visage,
engaged their attention, and excited their curiosity. On
his rising up, instead of beginning to pray, as was the usual
practice, he looked around the congregation with a piercing
eye and earnest attention, and after a minute's profound
silence, he addressed them with great solemnity in the fol-
lowing words ' My beloved brethren I am told you have
              :                          !


come here to-day to fast and pray ; a very good work indeed,
provided you have come with a sincere desire to glorify Grod
thereby.    But if your design is merely to comply with a
customary practice, or with the wish of your church officers,
you are guilty of the greatest folly imaginable, as you had
much better have staid at home and earned your three shil-
lings and sixpence, (at that time the stated price for a
day's labour ;) but if your minds are indeed impressed
with the solemnity of the occasion, and you are really de-
sirous of humbling yourselves before Almighty God, your
Heavenly Father, come, join with me, and let us pray.'
This had an effiict so uncommon and extraordinary on the
congi'egation, that the utmost seriousness was universally
manifested.    The prayer and the sermon added greatly to
the impressions already made, and tended to rouse the atten-
tion, influence the mind, command the affections, and increase
the temper which had been so happily produced. Many had
reason to bless God for his unexpected visit, and to reckon
this day one of the happiest of their lives.
   *< The writer having requested of the present Rev. Dr.
William M. Tennent a written account of an anecdote rela-
tive to his uncle, which he had once heard him repeat ver-
bally, received in reply the following letter :
        THE REV. WM. TENNENT,                  JR.       123

                              Abington, January 11 th, 1806.
         —
   " Sir The anecdote of my venerable relative, the Rev.
    *


William Tennent, of Freehold, which 30U wished me to send
to you, is as follows :
   ' " During the  great revival of religion, which took place
under the ministry of Mr. Whitefield, and others, distin-
guished for their piety and zeal at that period, Mr. Tennent
was laboriously active, and much engaged to help forward
the work  ;  in the performance of which he met with strong
and powerful temptations. The following is related as re-
ceived in substance, from his own lips, and may be consid-
ere 1 as extraordinary and singularly striking.
    '" On the evening preceding public worship, which was to
bo attended next day, he selected a subject for the discourse
which was to be delivered, and made some progress in his
|)reparations.  In the morning he resumed the same subject,
with an intention to extend his thoughts further on it, but
was presently assaulted with a temptation, that the Bible
which he then held in his hand was not of Divine authority,
but the invention of man.        He instantly endeavoured to
repel the temptation by prayer, but his endeavours proved
unavailing.    The temptation continued, and fastened upon
him with greater strength as the time advanced for public
service.    He lost all the thoughts which he had on his
subject the preceding evening.     He tried other subjects,
but could get nothing for the people.      The whole book of
Crod, under that distressing state of mind, was a sealed
book to him ; and to add to his affliction, he was, to use his
own words, 'shut up in prayer.'    A  cloud, dark as that of
Egypt, oppressed his mind.
    " Thus agonized in spirit, he proceeded to the church,
    '



where he found a large congregation assembled, and wait-
ing to hear the word ; and then it was, he observed, that
he was more deeply distressed than ever, aud especially for
the dishonour which he feared would fall upon religion,
through him, that day.    lie resolved, however, to attempt
the sci'vice. He introduced it by singing a psalm, during
which time his agitations were increased to the highest de-
gree.   When the moment for prayer commenced, he arose,
as one in the most perilous and painful situation, and with
arms extended to the heavens, began with this outcry,
*Lonl, Jiair mercy vjwn me!' Upon the utterance of this
124               THE LOG COLLEGE.
petition he was heard ; the thick cloud instantly broke
away, and an unspeakably joyful light shone in upon his
soul, so that his spirit seemed to be caught up to the hea-
vens, and he felt as though he saw Ood, as Moses did on
the mount, face to face, and was carried forth to him with
an enlargement greater than he had ever before experienced,
and on every page of the Scriptures saw his Divinity in-
scribed in brightest colours.   The result was a deep solem-
nity on the face of the whole congregation, and the house
at the end of the prayer was a Bochim.     He gave them the
subject of his evening meditations, which was brought to
his full remembrance, with an overflowing abundance of
other weighty and solemn matter.      The Lord blessed the
discourse, so that it proved the happy means of the conver-
sion of about thirty persons.    This day he spoke of ever
afterwards as his harvest-day.                              4
                    " ' I am, yours with esteem,
                         " ' WILLIAM M. TENNENT.'

   " "While on this subject, we may introduce another anec-
dote of this wonderful man, to show the dealings of God
with him, and the deep contemplations of his mind.        He
was attending the duties of the Lord's day in his own con-
gregation as usual, where the custom was to have morning
and evening service, with only a half hour's intermission, to
relieve the attention.   He had preached in the morning,
and in the intermission had walked into the woods for medi-
tation, the weather being warm.    He was reflecting on the
infinite wisdom of God, as manifested in all his works, and
particularly in the wonderful method of salvation, through
the death and sufferings of his beloved Son.     This subject
suddenly opened on his mind with such a flood of light,
that his views of the gloi*y, and the infinite majesty of Je-
hovah, were so inexpressibly great as entirely to overwhelm
him, and he fell, almost lifeless, to the ground.   When he
had revived a little, all he could do was to raise a fervent
prayer that God would withdraw himself from him, or that
he must perish under a view of his ineffable glory.     When
able to reflect on his situation, he could not but abhor him-
self as a weak and despicable worm, and seemed to be over-
come with astonishment, that a creature so unworthy and
insufficient had ever dai'ed to attempt the instruction of his
           THE REV. W M           .   T EN N ENT,      J 11       125

fcllow-men in the nature and attributes of so glorious a
Being. Overstaying his usual time, some of his elders went
in search of him, and found him prostrate on the ground,
unable to rise, and incapable of informing them of the cause.
They raised him up, and after some time brought him to
the church, and supported him to the pulpit, which he
ascended on his hands and knees, to the no small astonish-
ment of the congregation. He remained silent a consider-
able time, earnestly supplicating Almighty God (as he told
the writer) to hide himself from him, that he might be ena-
bled to address his people, who were by this time lost in
wonder to know what had produced this uncommon event.
His prayers were heard, and he became able to stand up, by
holding the desk.    He now began the most aflFecting and
pathetic address that the congregation had ever received
from him. He gave a surprising account of the views he
had of the infinite wisdom of God, and greatly deplored his
own incapacity to speak to them concerning a Being so infi-
nitely glorious beyond all his powers of description.   He
attempted to show something of what had been discovered
to him of the astonishing wisdom of Jehovah, of which it
was impossible for human nature to form adequate concep-
tions.  He then broke out into so fervent and expressive a
prayer, as greatly to sui-prise the congregation, and draw
tears from every eye.    A sermon followed that continued
the solemn scene, and made very lasting impressions on all
the hearers.*
   ** The great increase of communicants in  his church was
a good evidence of his pastoral care and powerful preaching,
as it exceeded that of most churches in the Synod.      But
his labours were not confined to the pulpit.   He was inde-
fatigable in his endeavours to communicate, in private
families, a savour of the knowledge of spiritual and divine
things.   In his parochial visits, he used regularly to go
through his congregation in order, so as to carry the un-
searchable riches of Christ to every house.    He earnestly

  * Mr. Tennent did not confine himself to any particular length in his
sermons, but regulated this very much by his feelings. The late Rev.
Dr. Spring, of Newburyport, informed the editor, that he and other stu-
dents of Nassau Hall, walked twenty miles to hear him preach, and the
sermon, measured by the watch, was no more than thirteen minutes in
the delivery.
          11*
126              THE LOG COLLEGE.
pressed it on the conscience of parents to instruct their
children at home by plain and easy questions, so as gradu-
ally to expand their young minds, and prepare them for the
reception of the more practical doctrines of the Grospel.  In
this Mr. Tennent has presented an excellent example to his
brethren in the ministry; for certain it is, that more good
may be done in a congregation by this domestic mode of
instruction than any one can imagine who has not made
the trial.  Children and servants are in this way prepared
for the teachings of the sanctuary, and to reap the full
benefit of the word publicly preached.     He made it a prac-
tice in all these visits to enforce practical religion on all,
high and low, rich and poor, young and old, master and
servant.   To this he was particularly attentive, it being a
favourite observation with him, ' that he loved a religion
that a man could live by.'
   " Mr. Tennent carefully avoided the discussion of contro-
versial subjects, unless specially called to it by particular
circumstances, and then he was ever ready to assign the rea-
son of his faith.    The following occurrence will show the
general state of his mind and feelings in regard to such sub-
jects.  A couple of young clergymen, visiting at his "house,
entered into a dispute on the ([uestion, at that time much con-
troverted in New England, whether faith or repentance were
first in order, in the conversion of a sinner.   Not being able
to determine the point, they agreed to make Mr. Tennent their
umpire, and to dispute the subject at length before him.
He accepted the proposal, and, after a solemn debate for
some time, his opinion being asked, he very gravely took
his pipe from his mouth, looked out of his window, pointed
to a man ploughing on a hill at some distance, and asked
the young clergymen if they knew that man ; on their
answering in the negative, he told them it was one of his
elders, who, to his full conviction, had been a sincere Chris-
tian for more than thirty years.     ' Now,' said Mr. Tennent,
* ask  him whether faith or repentance came first ; what do
you think he would say V They said they could not tell.
* Then,'
           says he, ' I will tell you ; he would say that he
cared not which came first, but that he had got them both.
Now, my friends,' he added, ' be careful that you have both
a true faith, and a sincere repentance, and do not be greatly
troubled which comes first.'    It is not, however, to be sup-
         THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR.                         127

posed by this, that Mr. Teunent was unfriendly to a deep
and accurate examination of all important theological doc-
trines.    There were few men more earnest than he to have
young clergymen well instructed, and thoroughly furnished
for their work.     This, indeed, was an object on which his
heart was much set, and which he exerted himself greatly
to promote.
   " Mr. Tennent was remarkably distinguished for a pointed
attention to the particular circumstances and situation of the
afflicted, either in body or mind, and would visit them with
as much care and attention as a physician, and frequently
indeed proved an able one to both soul and body.      But his
greatest talent was that of a peace-maker, which he possessed
in so eminent a degree, that probably none have exceeded,
and A'cry few have equalled him in it. He was sent for, far
and near, to settle disputes, and heal difficulties which arose
in congregations ; and happily for those concerned, he was
generally successful.    Indeed he seldom would relinquish
his object till he had accomplished it.
   " But while this man of God was thus successful in pro-
moting the best interests of his fellow creatures, and ad-
vancing the glory of his Lord and Master, the great enemy
of mankind was not likely to observe the destruction of his
kingdom without making an eifort to prevent it. As he
assailed our blessed Saviour in the days of his flesh, with
all his art and all his power, so has he always made the
faithful followers of the Redeemer the objects of his invete-
rate malice.   If the good man of whom we write was greatly
honoured by peculiar communications from on high, he was
also very often the subject of the severe buffetings of that
malignant and fallen spirit.
   " The time of which we are now speaking was remarkable
for a great revival of religion, in   which   Sir.   Tennent was
considerably instrumental, and in which a Mr. John Row-
land, brought up with Mr. Tennent at the Log College, was
also very remarkable for his successful preaching among all
ranks of people.   Possessing a commanding eloquence, as
well as other estimable qualities, he became very popular,
and was much celebrated throughout the country.          His
celebrity and success were subjects of very serious regret to
many careless worldlings, who placed all their happiness in
the enjoyment of temporal objects, and considered and reprc-
128             THE LOG COLLEGE.
sented Mr. Rowland and his brethren as fanatics and hypo-
crites.  This was specially applicable to many of the great
men of the then province of New Jersey, and particularly to
the Chief Justice, who was well known for his disbelief of
revelation.   There was at this time prowling through the
country, a noted man by the name of Tom Bell, whose
knowledge and understanding were very considerable, and
who greatly excelled in low art and cunning. His mind
was totally debased, and his whole conduct betrayed a soul
capable of descending to every species of iniquity.     In all
the arts of theft, robbery, fraud, deception, and defamation,
he was so deeply skilled, and so thoroughly practised, that
it is believed he never had his equal in this country.    He
had been indicted in almost every one of the middle colonies,
but his ingenuity and cunning always enabled him to escape
punishment.    This man unhappily resembled Mr. Rowland
in hisexternal appearance, so aa hardly to be      known from
him without the most careful examination.
   " It so happened that Tom Bell arrived one evening at a
tavern in Princeton, dressed in a dark, parson's gray frock.
On his entering the tavern about dusk, the late John Stock-
ton, Esq., of that town, a pious and respectable man, to
whom Mr. Rowland was well known, went up to Bell, and
addressed him as Mr. Rowland, and was inviting him to go
home with him. Bell assured him of his naistake. It wa3
with some difficulty that Mr. Stockton acknowledged his
error, and then informed Bell that it had arisen from his
great resemblance to Mr. Rowland.       This hint was sufficient
for the prolific genius of that notorious impostor.   The next
day Bell went into the county of Hunterdon, and stopped
in a congregation where Mr. Rowland had formerly preached
once or twice, but where he was not intimately known. Here
he met with a member of the congregation, to whom he
introduced himself as the Rev. Mr. Rowland, who had
preached to them some time before.         This gentleman im-
mediately invited him to his house to spend the weekj and
begged him, as the people were without a minister, to preach
for them on the next Sabbath, to which ]>ell agreed, and
notice was accordingly given to the neighbourhood.          The
impostor was treated with every mark of attention and re-
spect ; and a private room was assigned to him as a study,
to prepare for the Sabbath.       The sacred day arrived, and
           THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR.                     129

he was invited to ride to church with the ladies in the family
wagon, and the master of the house accompanied them on
an elegant horse.    When they had arrived near the church,
Bell on a sudden discovered that he had left his notes in his
study, and proposed to ride back for them on the fine horse,
by which means he should be able to return in time for the
service.   This proposal was instantly agreed to, and Bell
mounted the horse, returned to the house, rifled the desk of
his host, and made off with the horse. Wherever he stopped
he called himself the Rev. John Kowland.
   " At the time this event took place, Messrs. Tennent and
Rowland, had gone into Pennsylvania, or Maryland, with
Mr. Joshua Anderson and Mr. Benjamin Stevens, (both
members of a church contiguous to that where Bell had
practised his fraud,) on business of a religious nature. Soon
after their return, Mr. Rowland was charged with the above
robbery ; he gave bonds to appear at the court at Trenton,
and the affair made a great noise throughout the colony.
At the court of oyer and terminer, the judge charged the
grand jury on the subject with great severity. After long
consideration, the jury returned into court without finding a
bill.   The judge reproved them in an angry manner, and or-
dered them out again.     They again returned without finding
a bill, and wore again sent out with threatening of severe
punishment if they persisted in their refusal. At last they
agreed, and brought in a bill for the alleged crime.        On
the trial, Messrs. Tennent, Anderson, and Stevens appeared
as witnesses, and fully proved an alibi in favour of Mr.
Rowland, by swearing that on the very day on which the
robbery was committed they were with Mr. Rowland, and
heard him preach in Pennsylvania or Maryland.        The jury
accordingly acquitted him without hesitation, to the great
disappointment and mortification of his prosecutors, and of
many other enemies to the great revival of religion that had
recently taken place ; but to the great joy of the serious and
well disposed.
   " The spirits hostile to the spread of the gospel were not,
however, so easily overcome.     In their view an opportunity
was now presented favourable for inflicting a deep wound on
the cause of Christianity and, as if urged on by the malice
                         ;


of man's great enemy, they resolved that no means should
be left untried, no arts unemployed, for the destruction of
130              THE LOG COLLEGE.
these distinguished servants of God.       Many and various
were the circumstances which still contributed to inspire
them with hopes of success. The testimony of the person
who had been robbed was positive that Mr. Rowland was
the robber ; and this testimony was corroborated by that of
a number of individuals who had seen Tom Bell personating
Mr. Rowland, using his name, and in possession of the horse.
These sons of Belial had been able, after great industry used
for the purpose, to collect a mass of evidence of this kind,
which they considered as establishing the factj but Mr.
Rowland was now out of their power by the verdict of not
guilty.   Their vengeance, therefore, was directed against the
witnesses by whose testimony he had been cleared ; and they
were accordingly arraigned for perjury before a court of
quarter sessions in the county ; and the grand jury received
a strict charge, the plain import of which was that these
good men ought to be indicted. After an examination of
the testimony on one side only, as is the custom in such
cases, the gi-and jury did accordingly find bills of indictment
against Messrs. Tennent, Anderson, and Stevens, for wilful
and corrupt perjury. Their enemies, and the enemies of the
gospel, now began to triumph.      They gloried in the belief
that an indelible stain would be fixed on the professors of
religion, and of consequence on religion itself; and that this
new liijhty by which they denominated all appearance of piety,
would soon be extinguished for ever.
   " These indictments were removed to the Supreme Court,
and poor Mr. Anderson, living in the county, and conscious
of his entire innocence, could not brook the idea of lying
under the odium of the hateful crime of perjury he there-
                                                      ;


fore demanded a trial at the first court of oyer and terminer.
This proved most seriously injurious to him, for he was pro-
nounced guilty, and most cruelly and unjustly condemned to
stand one hour on the court-house steps with a paper on his
breast, whereon was written in large letters,     '
                                                   This is for
wilful and corrupt perjury ;' which sentence was executed
upon him.
   ''
      Messrs. Tennent and Stevens were summoned to appear
at the nest court, and attended accordingly, depending on
the aid of Mr. John Coxe, an eminent lawyer, who had been
previously employed to conduct their defence.         As Mr.
Tennent was wholly unacquainted with the nature of forensic
           THE REV. WM. TENNENT,                        JR.         131

litigation, and did not know of any person living who could
prove his innocence, (all the persons who were with him
being indicted), his only resource and consolation was to
commit himself to the divine will, and if he must suflfer, to
take it as from the hand of God, who, he well knew, could
make even the wrath of man to praise him ;* and considering
it as probable that he might suffer, he had prepared a ser-

mon to be preached from the pillory, if that" should be his
fate.   On his arrival at Trenton, he found the famous Mr.
Smith, of New York, father of the late chief justice of Can-
ada, one of the ablest lawyers in America, and of a religious
character, who had voluntarily attended to aid in his defence;
also his brother Gilbert, who was now settled in the pas-
toral charge of the second Presbyterian church, in Phila-
delphia, and who brought Mr. John Kiusey, one of the first
counsellors of that city, for the same purpose.        Messrs.
Tennent and Stevens met these gentlemen al> Mr. Coxe's the
morning before the trial was to come on. Mr. Coxe re-
quested that they would bring in their witnesses, that they
might examine them previously to their going into court.
Mr. Tennent answered that he did not know of any witnesses
but God and his own conscience.       Mr. Coxe replied, * If
you have no witnesses, sir, the trial must be put oif other-    j

wise you most certainly will be convicted.   You well know
the strong testimony that will be brought against you, and
the exertions that arc making to accomplish your ruin.'
Mr. Tennent replied, I am sensible of all this, yet it never
                          '



shall be said that I have delayed the trial, or been afraid to
meet the justice of my country. I know my own innocence,
and that God whose I am, and whom I serve, will n^ver
suffer me to fall by these snares of the devil, or by the
wicked machinations of his agents or servants. Therefore,
gentlemen, go on to the trial.'  Messrs. Smith and Kiusey,
who were both religious men, told him that his confidence
and trust in God, as a Christian minister of the gospel, was
well founded, and before a heavenly tribunal would be all-
important to him ; but assured him it would not avail in an
earthly court, and urged his consent to put off the trial.
Mr. Tennent continued inflexible in his refusal ; on which


   * "His affectionate congregation felt deeply interested in his critical
situation, and kejit a daj' ol' fasting and prayer on tbe occasion."
132               THE LOG COLLEGE.
Mr. Coxe told him that since he was determined to go to
trial,he had the satisfaction of informing him that they had
discovered a flaw in the indictment which might prove fa-
vourable to him on a demurrer.       He asked for an explana-
tion, and on finding that it was to admit the fact in a legal
point of view, and rest on the law arising from it, Mr. Ten-
nent broke out with great vehemence, saying that this was
another snare of the devil, and before he would consent to
it he would suffer death.   He assured his counsel that his
confidence in God was so strong, and his assurance that he
would bring about his deliverance in some way or other, was
so great, that he did not wish them to delay the trial for a
moment.
   " Mr. Stevens, whose faith was not of this description,
and who was bowed down to the ground under the most
gloomy apprehensions of suffering, as his neighbour Mr.
Anderson had done, eagerly seized the opportunity of escape
that waa offered, and was afterwards discharged on the ex-
ception.
  " Mr. Coxe still urged putting off the trial, charging Mr.
Tennent with acting the part rather of a wild enthusiast,
than of a meek and prudent Christian ; but he insisted that
they should proceed, and left them in astonishment, not
knowing how to act, when the bell summoned them to
court.
   " Mr. Tennent had not walked far in the street, before he
met a man and his wife, who stopped him, and asked if his
name was not Tennent. He answered in the aflSrmative,
and begged to know if they had any business with him.
The_ man replied, you best know.'
                    '
                                   He told his name, and
said that he was from a certain place (which he mentioned)
in Pennsylvania or Maryland ; that Messrs. Rowland, Ten-
nent, Anderson, and Stevens, had lodged either at his house,
or in a house wherein he and his wife had been servants, (it
is not now certain which) at a particular time, which he
named ; that on the following day they had heard Messrs.
Tennent and Rowland preach ; that some nights before they
left home, he and his wife waked out of a sound sleep, and
each told the other a dream which had just occurred, and
which proved to be the same in substance, to wit, that he,
Mr. Tennent, at Trenton, was in the greatest possible dis-
tress,   and that it was in their power and theirs only, to re-
       THE REV. W M         .   T E N N E N T , JR.       133

Wexe bim. Considering it as a remarkable dream only, tbey
again went to sleep, and it was twice repeated, precisely in
the same manner to both of them.        This made so deep an
impression on their minds, that they set ofi", and here they
were, and would know of him what they were to do.         Mr.
Tennent immediately went with them to the court house,
and his counsel, on examining the man and his wife, and
finding their testimony to be full to the purpose, were, as
they well might be, in perfect astonishment. Before the
trial began, another persim, of a low character, called on
Mr. Tennent, and told him that he was so harassed in con-
science, for the part he had been acting in this prosecution,
that he could get no rest till he had determined to come
and make a full confession. He sent this man to his coun-
sel also.   Soon after, Mr. Stockton from Princeton appeared,
and added his testimony. In short, they went to trial, and
notwithstanding the utmost exertions of the ablest counsel,
who had been employed to aid tlie attorney-general against
Mr. Tennent, the advocates on his side so traced every
movement of the defendant on the Saturday, Sunday, and
Monday, in question, and satisfied the jury so perfectly on
the subject, that they did not hesitate honourably to acquit
Mr. Tennent, by their unanimous verdict of not (juilti/, to
the great confusion and mortification of his numerous oppo-
sers.    Mr. Tennent assured the writer of this, that during
the whole of this business, his spirits never failed him, and
that he contemplated the possibility of his suffering so infii-
mous a punishment, as standing in the pillory, without dis-
may, and had made preparation, and was fully determined to
deliver a sermon to the people in that situation, if he should
be placed in it.
   " lie went from Trenton to Philadelphia with his brother,
and on his return as he was rising the hill at the entrance of
Trenton, without reflecting on what had happened, he acci-
dentally cast his eyes on the pillory, which suddenly so
filled him with horror as completely to unman him, and it
was with great difficulty that he kept himself from falling
from his horse. He reached the tavern door in considerable
danger, was obliged to be assisted to dismount, and it was
some time before he could so get the better of his fears and
confusion as to proceed on his journey.    Such is the consti-
tution of the human mind        ! It will often resist, with

        12
134             THE LOG COLLEGE.
unshaken firmness, the severest external pressure and vio-
lence ; and sometimes it yields without reason, when it has
nothing to fear.   Or, should we not rather say, such is the
support which Grod sometimes affords to his people in the
time of their necessity, and such the manner in which he
leaves them to feel their own weakness when that necessity
is past, that all the praise may be given where alone it is
due ?
   " The writer sincerely rejoices, that though a number of
the extraordinary incidents in the life of Mr. Tennent
cannot be vouched by public testimony and authentic
documents, yet the singular manner in which a gracious
God did appear for this his fixithful servant in the time of
that distress, which has just been noticed, is a matter of
public notoriety, and capable of being verified by the most
unquestionable testimony and records.
   " This special instance of the interference of the
righteous Judge of all the earth ought to yield consolation
to pious people in seasons of great difficulty and distress,
where there is none that seems able to deliver them. Yet
it ought to aff"ord no encouragement to the enthusiast, who
refuses to use the means of preservation and deliverance
which God puts in his power. True confidence in God is
always accompanied with the use of all lawful means, and
with the rejection of all that are unlawful.    It consists in
an unshaken belief, that while riglit means are used God
will give that issue which shall be most for his glory and
his people's good.     The extraordinary occurrence here
recorded may also serve as a solemn warning to the enemies
of God's people, and to the advocates of infidelity, not to
strive by wicked and deep laid machinations to oppose the
success of the gospel, nor to attempt to injure the persons
and characters of those faithful servants of the Most High,
whom sooner or later he will vindicate to the unspeakable
confusion of all who have •persecuted and traduced them.
   " Mr. Tennent was a man of the most scrupulous integ-
rity,and though of a very grave and solemn deportment,
he had a remarkably cheerful disposition, and generally
communicated his instructions with so much ease and pleas-
antry, as greatly to gain the confidence and affection of all
with whom he conversed, especially of children and young
people.   In all his intercourse with strangers and men of
         THE REV. W M        .   TENNENT,      JR.       135

the world,  he so managed his conversation that, while
ho seldom neglected a proijcr opportunity to impress the
mind with serious things, he always made them covet his
company rather than avoid it well knowing that there
                                 ;


is a time for all things, and that even instruction and
reproof, to be useful, must be prudently and seasonably
given.
  " An instance of this disposition occurred in Virginia.
The late Kev. Mr. Samuel Blair and Mr. Tennent were sent
by the Synod on a mission into that province. 'J'hey
stopped one evening at a tavern for the night, where they
found a number of guests, with whom they supped in a
common room. After the table was cleared, our missiona-
ries withdrew from it.    Cards were then called for, and the
landlord brought in a pack, and laid them on the table.
One of the gentlemen very politely asked the missionaries if
they would not take a cut with them, not knowing that they
were clergymen.     Mr. Tennent very pleasantly answered,
' With all my heart, gentlemen, if you can convince us that


thereby we can serve our Master's cause, or contribute any
thing towards the success of our mission.'    This drew some
smart reply from the gentleman, when ]\Ir. T. with solem-
nity added, ' We are ministers of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
We profess ourselves his servants ; we are sent on his busi-
ness, which is to persuade mankind to repent of their sins,
to turn from them, and to accept of that happiness and sal-
vation which is offered in the gospel.' This very unexpected
reply, delivered in a very tender though solemn manner,
and with great apparent sincerity, so engaged the gentle-
men's attention, that the cards were laid aside, and an
opportunity was afforded, and cheerfully embraced, for ex-
plaining in a sociable conversation, during the rest of the
evening, some of the leading and most important doctrines
of the gospel, to the satisfaction and apparent edification of
the hearers.
    " Resignation to the will of God in all his dispensations,
however dark and afflictive, was among the excellent graces
that adorned the character of this man of God.       '
                                                      He had
been tried in the course of God's providence in various
ways ; but domestic afflictions as yet had not been laid upon
him.   The time, however, was now come when his character
was to be brightened by a severe test of his resignation and
136             THE LOG COLLEGE.
obedience, a test attended with many peculiarly distressing
circumstances.    His youngest son, who was a very handsome
man, had just come into public life; had commenced the
practice of physic, was married and had one child.    To the
great distress of the parents he discovered, though possessed
of the sweetest temper and most agreeable manners, no
regard to the things that belonged to his eternal peace.
Wholly negligent of religion, he indulged without i-estraiut
in the gaiety and follies of the world.   The pious father
was incessant   at   the   throne   of grace   in   behalf of his
dissipated son ; and was continually entertaining hopes that
God would, by the influences of his Spirit, arrest him in
his career, and bring him into the Church of Christ, before
his own summons should arrive, that he might die in peace,
under the consoling hope of meeting this dear child in a
better world.    God, however, had determined otherwise;
and the son, while engaged in inoculating a number of
persons in a house he had obtained for the pui'pose, near his
father's neighbourhood, was seized in an unusually violent
manner with a raging fever. With the disorder he was
brought to a sudden and alarming view of his lost condition
by nature, and the grievous transgressions of his past life.
His sins were all set in dread array against him. A hor-
rible darkness, and an awful dread of the eternal displeasure
of Jehovah fell on him, so as to make him the dreadful
example of a convicted sinner, trembling under the con-
founding presence of an angry God.      The affectionate and
pious father was constantly in prayer and supplication, that
God would have mercy upon him. He seldom left the side
of his bed.   For many days the fever raged with unabated
fury ; but the immediate distresses which it occasioned, were
lost or forgotten in the severer pains of an awakened con-
science.   Such was the height to which his anguish at last
arose, that the bed on which he lay was shaken by the
violent and united convulsions of mind and body.          The
parents were touched to the quick      and their unqualified
                                        ;


submission to God, as a sovereign God, was put to the most
rigorous proof.
        '          But in due time they came out of the
furnace, as gold tried in the fire.  God, in his infinite and
condescending grace and mercy, was at last pleased, in some
measure, to hear the many prayers put up by the parents,
and many pious friends for tho relief of the poor sufferer.
         THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR.                       137
                                                               I




His views of the lost state of man by nature ; of the only-
means of salvation, through the death and suiferings of the
Saviour ; of the necessity of the inward regenerating grace
of the Holy Spirit, became clear and consistent, and the
importance of a pi'actical acquaintance with these things was
deeply and rationally impressed on his mind.     He now saw
that salvation, which he had deemed almost or altogether
hopeless to him, was possible.    His mind became calm, and
he attended to religious instruction and advice. In a short
time he began to give as much evidence of a change of
heart as a death-bed repentance (rarely to be greatly relied
on) can afford.    He sent for his companions in iniquity,
and notwithstanding his disorder, exerted himself to the
utmost to address them, which he did in the most solemn,
awful, and impressive manner, as a person who, by the
infinite mercy of a prayer-hearing God, had been delivered
from a hell gaping to receive him. He besought them by
all the terrors of everlasting destruction ; by all the love
they ought to bear to their own immortal souls ; by the
love of a crucified Jesus, who poured out his soul unto
death that they might live for ever ; by his own awful
sufierings and terrible example, that they would repent and
turn to God.    This happy change was a reviving cordial to
the distressed and suffering father.  His soul was overjoyed,
and his mouth was full of the praises of redeeming love.
His mind and     spirits   were hereby prepared with true
resignation, to surrender the son of his advanced age to the
God who gave      him.   After a few days more of severe
suffering in  body, but rejoicing in mind, the sou was.
removed from time to eternity. There being no minister in
the neighbourhood, the father undertook to preach a funeral
sermon.    All the son's old companions that could be sent
to were especially invited, and the old gentleman preached
in such a manner, with a particular address to the young
men, as to astonish every hearer ; and while the seriously
inclined wondered and adored, the careless were confounded
and greatly alarmed.
   " Scarcely had Mr. Tcnncnt got over this heavy affliction,
and returned to an active and useful course of life for a few
years, when God again called him to another severe and
arduous struggle of the same nature.    His eldest son, John,
promised fair to make a distinguished figure in life ; had pos-
         12 *
138                  THE LOG COLLEGE.
sessecl a large share in the affections of both father and mother,
and was more dear to their hearts than ever since the death of
his brother. It so happened that the father was called to New
York to heal some differences between the members of the
church there. The next morning after his arrival he went
into a bookstore, when one of the ministers of the Episcopal
church came in, and on being introduced to him, after the
common salutations, told him he condoled with him on the
death of his eldest son in the West Indies. The old gen-
tleman was at first struck dumb. With diflBculty he soon
inquired how the news came being informed that it was by
                                      ;


a circuitous route, he suddenly turned and said, * The wall
of the Lord be done.'     The clergyman observed, that it was
happy for him to be able so cordially to submit to it. Mr.
Tennent replied, ' The Lord is my God, his will be done.*
On being asked by the bookseller, who was his particular
friend, to retire into the house, and endeavour to settle his
mind, he answered, ' I am come on the Lord's business ; my
duty requires that I should finish it ; when that is done I
shall have time enough to mourn for my son.'       He imme-
diately set off to attend his appointment, finished the busi-
ness to his satisfaction, and next day returned home, where
he found that a letter had been received by a neighbour,
containing the same information which he had before re-
ceived.   Thus, on the most trying occasion, he showed the
same submission to the allotment of divine providence that
was discoverable in all his former conduct. The following
extract from a letter, written at this time to the writer of
this narrative, will show the temper of his mind in his own
language    :


                                  " 'Freehold, March, 177G.
   '' '                    —
      My Dear Sh-: Perhaps before this comes to hand
you will be informed that lie who gave me the honourable
epithet of a father has, in his wise and unerring providence,
written me childless.*    My sou is dead. This account I
had yesterday from a letter written to a friend ; the account
is so straight (though nut cii'cumstantial,) that I cannot
doubt its truth. The tender mother has not heard it, nor
do I intend she shall until authenticated. This I mention
as a caution to you, in case you should write me before the

  * ''He f;cctn,«, in the depth of his distress, to h.ave forgotten that he yet
had one son loft, although he was 800 miles distant from him."
         THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR.                           139

matter is published.    Let the dear heart have all possible
ease befoi-G the load, which it is likely will try her lite, falls
upon her. I know her attachment to that child ; his con-
duct has been such as greatly endeared him to us.            Our
pains and expense in his education have been great, but
infinitely short of what God has done for him.          lie has,
therefore, the best right to him.     Should we then, were it
in our power, obstruct his taking full possession of his own
property ?    God forbid   ! This, sir, through God's good-
ness, is not only what I say, but it is the temper of my soul,
for which God only deserves the honour.        It is now above
fifty years since my soul resigned itself to God in Jesus
Christ.    I had then neither son nor daughter ; I Avas com-
pletely satisfied with Him, and, blessed be his name, I am
so now.     Have I then reason to cry out as if ruined ?          !


no ; on the contrary, I have the utmost reason for thanks-
giving that he has not, in righteous judgment, deprived me
of himself, in whom all fulness dwells.   My wife and my-
self are now hastening to childhood ; if spared a few years,
we shall need one to lead us ; and we shall look to you,
under God. All the benefit you can expect from so doing,
                                     own mind, that you
will consist in the satisfaction of your
have helped two old people through the last steps of their
pilgrimage.'
   " Thus did this pious man turn every event of life, how-
ever afflictive, to the praise and glory of God, and he seldom
omitted an opportunity of inculcating the same disposition
on all his acquaintance.
   " When the late Rev. George Whiteficld was last in this
country, Mr. Tennent paid him a visit as he was passing
through New Jersey.         Mr. Whiteficld and a number of
other clergymen, among whom was Mr. Tennent, were in-
vited to dinner by a gentleman in the neighbourhood where
the late Mr. William Livingston, since governor of New
Jersey, resided, and who, with several other lay gentlemen,
was among the guests. After dinner, in the course of an
easy and pleasant conversation, ]Mr. Whiteficld adverted to
the ditficulties attending the gospel ministry, arising from
the small success with which their labours were crowned.
He greatly lamented that all their zeal, activity and fervour
availed but little ; said that he was weary with the burdens
and fatigues of the day 3 declared his great consolation was,
140             THE LOG COLLEGE.
that in a short time his work would be done, when he should
depart and be with Christ ; that the prospect of a speedy
deliverance had supported his spirits, or that he should be-
fore now have sunk under his labour.        He then appealed
to the ministers around him, if it were not their great com-
fort that they should soon go to rest.      They generally as-
sented, excepting Mr. Teuneut, who sat next to Mr. White-
field in silence ; and by his countenance discovered but little
pleasure in the conversation.       On which Mr. Whitefield,
turning to him and tapping him on the knee, said, 'Well       !


brother Tennent, you are the oldest man amongst l^s, do
you not rejoice to think that your time is so near at hand,
when you will be called home and freed from all the dif-
ficulties attending this chequered scene V     Mr. T. bluntly
answered, I have no wish about it.'
           '
                                          Mr. W. pressed him
again ; and Mr. T. again answered, 'No, sir, it is no pleasure
to me at all, and if you knew your duty it would be none to
you.     I have nothing to do with death ; my business is to
                    —
live as long as I can                 —
                        as well as I can  and to serve my Lord
and Master as faithfully as I can, until he shall think pro-
per to call me home.'      Mr. W. still urged for an explicit
answer to his question, in case the time of death were left
to his own choice.     Mr. Tennent replied, ' I have no choice
about it; I am Grod's servant, and have engaged to do his
business as long as he pleases to continue me thei'ein.    But
now, brother, let me ask you a question.         What do you
think I would say if I was to send my man Tom into the
field to plough, and if at noon I should go to the field and
find him lounging under a tree, and complaining, ' Master,
the sun is very hot, and the ploughing hard and difiicult ; I
am tired and weary of the work you have appointed me, and
am overdone with the heat and burden of the day ; do, mas-
ter, let me return home and be discharged from this hard
 service V    What would I say ? Why, that he was an idle,
lazy fellow ; that it was his business to do the work that I
 had appointed him, until I, the proper judge, should think
 fit to call him home.    Or suppose you had hired a man to
 serve you faithfully for a given time in a particular service,
 and he should, without any reason on your part, and before
 he had performed half his service, become weary of it, and
 upon every occasion be expressing a wish to be discharged
 or placed in other circumstances.     AVould you not call him
        THE REV. WM. TENNENT,                    JR.        141

a wicked and slothful servant, and unworthy of the privileges
of your employ ?' The mild, pleasant, and Christian-like
manner in which this reproof was administered, rather in-
creased the .social harmony and edifying conversation of the
company, who became satisfied that it was very possible to
err, even in desiring with undue earnestness    ' to depart and
be with Christ,' wliich in itself is far better' than to remain
                                    '




in this imperfect state; and that it is the duty of the Chris-
tian, in this respect, to say, 'All the days of my appointed
time will I wait till my change come.'
   " Among Mr. Tennent's qualifications, none were more
conspicuous than his activity both of body and mind.        He
hated and despised sloth.     He was almost always in action
—  never wearied in well-doing, nor in serving his friends.
His integrity and independence of spirit were observable on
the slightest acquaintance.     He was so great a lover of
truth, that he could not bear the least aberration from it,
even in a joke.     He was remarkable for his candour and
liberality of sentiment with regard to those who differed
from him in opinion. His hospitality and domestic enjoy-
ments were even proverbial. His public s]>irit was always
conspicuous, and his attachment to what he thought the
best interests of his country was ardent and inflexible.     He
took an early and decided part with his country in the com-
mencement of the      late revolutionary war.   He was con-
vinced that she •fras oppressed, and that her petitions to the
sovereign of the mother country were constitutional, loyal,
moderate, and reasonable ; that the treatment they received
was irrational, tyrannical, and intolerable. As he made it
a rule, however, never to carry politics into the pulpit, he
had no way to manifest his zeal for the public measures
but by his private jwayers, and by his decided opinions
delivered in private    conversations.   But   in this   way his
sentiments became universally known, and he was consid-
ered as a warm friend to the American cause.      Notwith-
standing these political opinions, he was not blind to the
errors of his countrymen, and especially to their moral      and
religious conduct.     The followingextract from a letter to
the author of these sketches, dated Feb. li, 1775^ strongly
marks the temper of his mind    :




                          —
    " Mij very dear Sir Your kind letter came to hand
    '


three days since.  Your comforts and sorrows are mine in
142                    THE LOG COLLEGE.
no small degree; I share with you in both; the tie is
such as death cannot dissolve. This is a day of dark-
ness in my view, and few are in any degree properly
affected with it. I have, through grace, perhaps, as little
to fear for myself, or mine, as any living.     I humbly
hope we are housed in Jesus; but I am distressed for
the nation and laud.  The ruin of both is awfully threat-
ened and, though now deferred, may ere long be accom-
        ;

plished, unless reformation takes place.    It behoves every
one to cry,     '
                    Spare thy people,
                                 Lord, and give not thine
heritage to reproach.'  I know God is merciful ; he has,
notwithstanding, disinherited a people as dear to him as
ever we were, whose sins were not more aggravated than
ours.    The Lord can deliver, but have we reason to think
be will, having told us that he will wound the head of his
                                        '


enemies, and the hairy scalps of such who go on in their
trespasses ?' Is there any appearance of reformation ? Yea,
is it not the reverse ? Are not our meetings for the preser-
vation of our liberty often abused by excessive drinking ?
&c. &c.   Have not politics taken place of religion in all
our conversations ? Is it not become unconstitutional (to
use vulgar language) to mention God's name in company,
unless by way of dishonouring him ? Are not things sacred
neglected by some, and burlesqued by others ?    Is not the
newspaper substituted for the Bible on Lord's days, yea, at
church ? What will the end of these things be ? Blessed
be God, through Jesus Christ, He is for a sanctuary.'

   " Mr. Tennent was on a visit within less than twenty
miles of New York, when a British frigate attempted to
pass the batteries, and to proceed up the North Biver, while
General Washington lay with the American army in that
city.       A
           very heavy cannonading took place, which was
mistaken by the surrounding country for a general attack
on our army.    Mr. Tennent was deeply affected, and after a
violent struggle within himself, he turned to a friend or two
present, and said, ' Come, while our fellow citizens are fight-
ing let us retire to prayer.'    They, accordingly, went up
into his room, where lie most devoutly poured out his soul
for about half an hour in the most fervent prayers, wrestling
with God in behalf of his suffering country.
   "In the winter of 1776-7, the British overran a great
         THE REV. WM. TENNENT,                   JR.       143

part of the state of New Jersey, and particularly the county
of Monmouth, whore a number of the inhabitants were in
the British interests.   Such was their apparent power, and
the distressed situation of the American army, retreating
be%i-e them, that it was generally supposed by the people
in the country, that the dispute was almost at an end, and
that all hopes of successful opposition were nearly extin-
guished.   A   British party arose in the county, who seized
their fellow citizens, and dragged them to a British provost,
where they were treated in the most cruel manner, as rebels
and traitors. Even citizens from other parts of the state,
who had taken refuge in the county, depending on the
known hosijitality of the inhabitants, were not respected.
In this situation Mr. Tennent very justly thought himself
in great danger ; but having no place to flee to for safety,
he remained at home, committing himself td the protection
of Almighty Grod.      In the month of Dec. 1776, a number
of the inhabitants came to his house, and insisted that he
 should go to Princeton without delay, and take the benefit
 of Cxcneral Howe's proclamation, offering a pardon to those
 who should seek it within a limited time. He refused, till
 he found himself in danger of being taken off and com-
 mitted to a British provost, which he well knew was but
 another word for a lingering death.    He also found that, in
 his present state, his usefulness as a minister of the gospel
 was at an end, unless he complied with the wishes of the
 people, most of the whigs of influence having fled.      Con-
 cluding that present duty enforced the request which was
 thus urged upon him, he promised to go to Princeton.      On
 his way he lodged at the house of a young clergyman, and
 ou rising in the morning he seemed greatly oppressed in
 spirit.  On being asked what troubled him, he answered
with a heavy sigh,   '
                         I am going to do a thing for conscience
sake, directly against my conscience.' Soon after his return
home, to the surprise of every body, the British quarters at
Trenton were beaten up, and a British x-egiment taken at
Princeton ; the American army again advanced, and took a
strong position at Morristown, by which the British in their
turn were obhged to retreat and contract their lines to
Brunswick and Amboy. The Americans again got posses-
sion of the county of 3Ionmouth, where the whigs returned
in force.  Mr. Tennent's mind was greatly oppressed with
144                  THE LOG COLLEGE.
his untoward situation, and lie severely blamed his untimely
submission.
   "About the latter end of February, or beginning of March,
1777, Mr. Tenuent was suddenly seized with a fever, at-
tended by violent symptoms. He sent for his family ^y-
sieian,who was in the act of setting off for the legislature
of the state, of which he was a member.    Pie called on his
patient on his way, but could spend but a few minutes with
him.      He, however, examined carefully into Mr. Tenuent's
complaints, and the symptoms attending the disorder. With
great candour the physician informed his patient that the
attack appeared unusually violent ; that the case required
the best medical aid, and that it was out of his power to
attend him.   He feared that, at his advanced age, there was
not strength of nature sufficient to overcome so severe a
shock, and that his symptoms scarcely admitted of a fiivour-
able prognostic.  The good old man received this news with
his usual submission to the divine will; for, as he had
always considered himself as bound for eternity, he had
endeavoured so to live, that when the summons should come,
be would have nothing to do but to die. He calmly replied,
* I am very sensible of the
                             violence of my disorder ; that it
has racked my constitution to an uncommon degree, and
beyond what I have ever before experienced, and that it is
accompanied with symptoms of approaching dissolution ; but
blessed be God, I have no wish to live if it should be his
will and pleasure to call me hence.'       After a moment's
pause he seemed to recollect himself, and varied the expres-
sion thus    :lilcssed be God, I have no wish to live, if it
                 *



should be his will and pleasure to call me hence, unless it
should be to see a happy issue to the severe and arduous
controversy my country is engaged in ; but even in this, the
will of the Lord be done.'
    "During his whole sickness, he continued perfectly re-
signed to the divine will, until death was swallowed up in
victory on the 8th day of March, 1777. His body was buried
in his own church at Freehold, a numerous concourse of
people, composed not only of the members of his own con-
gregation, but of the inhabitants of the whole adjacent coun-
try attending his funeral.
   "Mr. Teunent was rather more than six feet high, of a
spare, thin visage, and of an erect carriage.   He had bright.
        THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR.                        145

piercing eyes, a long sharp nose, and a long face.         His
general countenance was grave and solemn, but at all times
cheerful and pleasant with his friends.     It may be said of
him with peculiar propriety, that he appeared in an extra-
ordinary manner, to live above the world and all its allure-
ments.    He seemed habitually to have such clear views of
spiritual and heavenly things, as afforded him much of the
foretaste and enjoyment of them.     His fiith was really and
experimentally * the substance of things hoped for, and the
evidence of things unseen.' 'Literally, his daily walk was
with God, and he lived ' as seeing him who is invisible.'
The divine presence with him was frequently manifested in
his public ministrations, and in his private conduct.      His
ardent soul was seldom satisfied, unless he was exerting
himself in some way or other, in public or private, in ren-
dering kind offices and effectual services of friendship, both
in spiritual and temporal things, to his fellow-men.      Take
him in his whole demeanour and conduct, there are few of
whom it might more emphatically be said, that he lived the
life and died the death of the righteous.

  " He was well, read in divinity, and was of sound ortho-
dox principles. He professed himself a moderate Calvinist,
The doctrines of man's depravity, the atonement of the
Sa\aour, the absolute necessity of the all-powerful influence
of the Spirit of God to renew the heart and subdue the will,
all in perfect consistence with the free agency of the sinner,
were among the leading articles of' his faith. These doc-
trines, indeed, were generally interwoven in his public dis-
courses, whatever might be the particular subject discussed.
His success was often answerable to his exertions. His
people loved him as a father, revered him as the pastor and
bishop of their souls, obeyed him as their instructor, and
delighted in his company and private conversation as a
friend and brother.     He carefully avoided making a differ-
ence between his doctrines publicly taught and his private
practice.   Attending a Synod a few years before his death,
a strange clergyman, whom he never had before seen, was
introduced to the Synod, and asked to preach in the even-
ing.    Mr. Tennent attended, and was much displeased with
the sermon.     As the congregation were going out of the
church, Mr. Tennent, in the crowd, coming up to the
preacher, touched him on the shoulder, and said, My bro-
                                                    '




        13
146             THE LOG COLLEGE.
ther, when I preacli I take care to save myself, wliatevcr I
do with my congregation.' The clergyman looked behind
him with surprise, and seeing a very grave man, said, What
                                                       '



do you mean, sir ?' Mr. Tcnnent answered,         You have
                                                  '



been sending your whole congregation. Synod and all, to
perdition, and you have not even saved yourself.      When-
ever I preach, I make it a rule to save myself;' and then
abruptly left him, without his knowing who spoke to him.
   At Mr. Tennent's death, the poor mourned for him as
their patron, their comforter and support ; and the rich
lamented over him as their departed pastor and friend. The
public at large lost in him a firm asserter of the civil and
religious interests of his country.  He was truly a patriot,
not in words and pretences, not in condemning all who dif-
fered from him to proscription and death, but in acting in
Buch a manner as would have rendered his country most
happy, if all had followed his example.    He insisted on his
own rights and freedom of sentiment, but he was willing to
let others enjoy the same privilege; and he thought it of as
much importance to live and act well, as to think and speak
justly.
                                              —
   " To conclude these imperfect sketches, may all who
read the memoirs of this amiable and useful man, fervently
and constantly beseech that God, with whom is the residue
of the Spirit, that their life may be that of the righteous, so
that their latter end may be like his ; and that the great
Head of the Church, while he removes faithful and distin-
guished labourers from the gospel vineyard, may raise up
others, who shall possess even a double portion of their
spirit, and who shall be even more successful in winning
souls unto Jesus Christ, the great Bishop of souls.
                        CHAPTER XI.

       REMARKS ON THE PRECEDING NARRATIVE.


                                     —
Mr. Tennent's trance not supernatural The dreams of the witnesses
                                              —
  cannot he accounted for on natural principles God still occasionally
  gives admonitory dreams.


  It must be acknowledged that some of the facts re-
corded in the preceding narrative are of a marvellous
nature; but we are inclined to believe that they all
may be accounted for on natural principles, except
one.   The appearance of death when life is not extin-
guished, but only suspended, has been often observed
on the termination of nervous fevers, and in epileptic
and apoplectic fits. The temporary loss of memory
on recovery has also been often obseiived. Persons
have been known to lie in one of these trances for
weeks together; and there is too much reason to fear
that some persons have been buried alive, by being
prematurely carried to the grave.     This undoubtedly
would have been the unhappy case of Mr, Tennent,
had not his young friend interposed. And as to the
happy state of his mind during this period, and his
imagining that he was in heaven, it is all very natural,
and does not require that we should suppose the soul
to have been separated from the body.     We would not
deny that a man, through life so highly favoured in
receiving extraordinary manifestations of God's per-
fections, and especially of his love, might, even when
in this state of apparent death, have been the subject
of a gracious influence, which filled his imagination
with the rapturous views which he enjoyed.      We are
                                                        (147)
148          •
                 THE LOG COLLEGE.
disposed, however, to admire Mr. Tennent's prudence,
in not being forward to speak of his experience during
this period; and we do not feel disposed to regret that
he never committed to writing an account of his
visions; or if he did, that his executor never could lay
his hands on the manuscript.     When Paul was caught
up to paradise, and heard and saw the glory of the
third heaven, he uttered not a word respecting the
nature of his vision he merely said that he " heard
                          ;



unspeakable things, which it is not lawful for a man to
utter."   The writer Avould further remark, that in cer-
tain states of the. nervous system, when the common
functions of life seem to be suspended, it is no un-
common      thing   for       the   imagination to   be strongly
affected.
  The only thing in the foregoing history of William
Tennent which cannot be accounted for, upon the ordi-
nary principles of human nature, is, the dreams of the
man and his wife which brought them from Maryland
to Trenton, and whose testimony was absolutely neces-
sary to save this good man from an ignominious pun-
ishment.                                              —
           In this case, if the facts are true concern-
ing which there can be no reasonable doubt there          —
must have been a supernatural interposition. These
simple people could have had no knowledge of what
was transacting in New Jersey ; and when they came
to Trenton, they knew not for what purpose their pre-
sence was needed. In all ages of the world, suggestions
and impressions have been made in dreams, which have
been important to the safety or interest of certain per-
sons, for whose sake the communication was made.
And we learn from the Bible, that dreams of this super-
natural kind have not been confined to the pious, but
have been granted to heathen kings, and other persons
who knew not the true God, as in the case of the butler
and baker, of Pharaoh and Nebuchadnezzar. Such
dreams ai-e still on certain occasions granted, probably
by the ministry of angels, for the admonition or direc-
tion of the people of God, or for reasons unknown to
        THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR.                   149

US.  Although it is true, " in the multitude of dreams
there are divers vanities," and although false prophets
pretended to receive communications in dreams, and
at this time   many persons are superstitiously aifected
by dreams, yet the truth of the fact ought not to be
denied, that, even in our day, dreams are sometimes
admonitory, and seem to preserve certain persons from
evils, which they could not otherwise escape. God has
no where informed us that this mode of communication
with men should entirely cease; and if there are, how-
ever rarely, such communications to certain persons in
sleep, it furnishes some proof of the existence of a
world of spirits, invisible to us but near and that we
                                          ;


are surrounded, and often guarded by kind angels,
who minister unto us, and preserve us from many evils
of which w^ are not aware.     Such dreams are not
properly called miraculous, nor can the persons to
whom they are vouchsafed be said to be inspired.
They are merely extraordinary intimations to the mind,
probably, as was said, by the agency of guardian an-
gels.  The only unaccountable thing in this whole
business is, that Mr. Tennent and his fellow-travellers
had not sent off immediately to this distant place for
witnesses, for there were many there who had heard
him and Mr. Rowland preach. Conscious of innocence,
 they seem to have apprehended no danger and when
                                              ;



 one of their number was found guilty, and actually
 punished for perjury, there might not have been time
 to bring persons from such a distance.    But in regard
 to Mr. Tennent, he was not only conscious of inno-
 cence, but had such unshaken confidence in God, that
 he feared nothing     ;being fully persuaded that he
 would in some way interpose by his providence for his
 deliverance, or would overrule his unjust condemnation
 and punishment for his own glory. This last seems to
 have been especially on his mind for we are informed
                                    ;


 that he had prepared a sermon for the occasion, to be
 preached while standing in the pillory.
        13*
                       CHAPTER XII.

      ANECDOTES OF THE REV. WM. TENNENT,                  JR.



                                 —                       —
Mr. Tennent loses .some of his toes Attempted explanation Anecdotes
                      —
  supplied by Dr. Miller Anecdotes from the Assembly's Magazine, with
  an account of his interview with Murray the Universalist.


   We   have never known a man in modern times, con-
cerning whom so many extraordinary things are related.
The most important of these are contained in Dr.
Boudinot's memoir of his life ; but many others were
omitted, either because he judged them of not suffi-
cient importance to be recorded in such a work, or
because, writing for a periodical, he was limited as to
the space which the memoir was allowed to occupy.
Many of these anecdotes, however, he took a pleasure
in relating in conversation with his friends; and those
which have been kindly furnished by my friend and
colleague, the Rev. Dr. Miller, were received from
him.     I have been in some doubt about introducing
the contents of this chapter into the volume; but as
the anecdotes here given are all believed to be authen-
tic, it was thought that they would tend to exhibit in
a more distinct light the true character of this extra-
ordinary man.     Many others have been cm-rent in his
vicinity, but as they have been handed down by tradi-
tion, they have not been considered as sufficiently au-
thenticated to be inserted in this memoir and some of
                                                    ;


them are of too ludicrous a nature to have a place in a
serious narrative.
  There is one remarkable thing which happened to
Mr. Tennent, not recorded in the memoir written by
      (150)
        THE REV. AV M     .   TENNENT,    JR.       151

Dr. Boudinot, wliich has to most appeared more inex-
plicable than any other event of his life. One night,
as the story goes, when Mr. Tennent was asleep in his
own bed, he was Avakcd up by a sharp pain in the re-
gion of the toes of one of his feet ; and upon getting a
light and examining the foot, it was discovered that
several of his toes had been cut entirely off, as if by
some sharp instrument. But though the wounded part
was bleeding, nothing was seen of the exscinded mem-
bers, nor any means    by which such a dismemberment
could have been effected.
   In the room was found no animal, rat, cat, or dog,
although diligent search was made neither could there
                                   ;


ba discovered any sharp instrument by which such a
wound could have been inflicted. Mr. Tennent himself
confidently believed that the injury was done by the
prince of darkness, of whose power and malice he was
deeply convinced.     Others supposed that it must have
been effected by some domestic animal, which might
have made its escape before a light was obtained, as
both rats and cats have been known violently to attack
and wound persons while asleep. But neither of these
explanations gives satisfaction. For as to Satan it can-
not be doubted that his malice is great, and that it is
especially directed against holy men, and particularly
faithful ministers ; but we have no evidence that he is
now permittjgd to injure or wound the bodies of the
saints.  Our fathers were more credulous on this point
than we are, and we may dismiss all further notice of
this account, as an opinion properly belonging to a
former age. And as to the idea that it might have
been the bite of a hungry and voracious rat, or mad
cat, the thing is very improbable.    Neither of these
animals could have, with its teeth, severed the toes
from the foot so suddenly ; and in that case the wound
would have had marks of the gnawing of such an ani-
mal, whereas it was said to have had the appearance
of being made by a shai'p instrument. Perhaps the dif-
ficulty of accounting for the accident prevented Dr.
152             THE LOO COLLEGE.
Boudinot from inserting the story in Mr. Tennent's
memoir for there can be no doubt that he was well
        ;


acquainted with the fact, and all its circumstances.
   The author of this compilation has the more readily
consented to record the event, because he has a hypo-
thesis by which he thinks he can account for such an
accident.
  Upon a survey of the circumstances of the affair, it
seems highly probable, that Mr. Tennent was a som-
nambulist, and received this injury by treading, in his
rambles, on some sharp instrument soon after Avliich
                                     ;


he returned to his bed, but did not feel the pain of the
wound until he awoke. It is well known, that persons
in this kind of sleep, are very little susceptible of the
feeling of pain from any accident of this sort ; and
they seldom ever retain any recollection of the exer-
cises of their minds at the time, or of the scenes
through which they have passed. Many instances
might be given of persons receiving bodily hurts while
in this state, without being awakened thereby     ;   and
apparently, without any feeling of pain from wounds
which would cause very acute suffering to one awake.
And it may not be improper to refer for proof of this,
to undoubted facts, witnessed by many, in regard to
persons in a mesmeric sleep, who undergo surgical
operations, which give intense pain in a common state,
without any appearance of sensibility.     ,
   The writer recollects to have heard of an instance
precisely in point, which occurred in Philadelphia, in
relation to a son of the late Dr. Sproat, who, being a
somnambulist, got out of his room at a window on a
shed, and jumped on the ground, but lighting on some-
thing sharp, cut his foot ; and being soon missed, was
pursued by his bloody tracks on the snow, with which
the ground was at the time covered.      But he was not
awakened from his sleep by the wound which he re-
ceived.' Other cases of serious injiuy, sustained in the
night by persons who could give no account how they
occurred, have fallen under the notice of the writer,
           THE REV, WM. TENNENT, JR.                     153

and which can only be accounted for by this hypo-
thesis.  If it be alleged, that Mr. Wm. Tennerit was
not known to be a somnambulist, it may be answered,
that he certainly had a nervous system strung in a
very peculiar manner, and many are subject to this
kind of sleep, who never know anything about it. And
we would adduce the fact under" consideration,    as a
strong presumptive evidence of the thing supposed.-
  The following anecdotes of the Rev. William Ten-
nent were kindly communicated to the author by the
Rev. Doctor Miller, of Princeton.
    " This remarkable man was greatly distinguished for de-
cision  of character.   Many good men of his day bad more
intellectual vigour than he possessed, but few of his contem-
poraries possessed as much as he did of that moral courage,
that fixedness of purpose, and that firmness of Christian
heroism, which coukl not be turned to the right or the
left.   This trait in his character was once very strongly
exemplified at a meeting of the Board of Trustees of the
College of New Jersey.     It is well known that Mr. Tcnnent
was one of the most active and zealous of the founders of
that College ;   and that the great object of those worthy
men, in all the labour and expense which they incurred in
its establishment, was to train up a pious and learned minis-
try for the Presbyterian Church.       For the attainment of
this object, and to guard the College against every species
of perversion or abuse, he was ever on the watch, and es-
pecially to promote the religious interests of the Institu-
tion.
   '* Soon after  William Franklin (son of Benjamin) was
appointed Governor of the Province of New Jersey, he took
his seat accordiug to the provision of the charter, as ex
officio President of the Board.    On one of the early occa-
sions of his presiding in quality of governor, after coming
to that office, he formed a plan of wheedling the Board into
an agreement to have their charter so modified as to place
the Institution more entirely in the power of the Provincial
government, and to receive in exchange for this concession
some inconsiderable pecuniary advantage.      The Governor
made this proposal in a plausible speech, and was receiving
the thanks of several short-sighted and sanguine members of
154              TUE LOG COLLEGE.
tlie                      —
     Board of Trustees when Mr. Tennent, who had been
prevented by some dispensation of Providence from coming
earlier, appeared in the Board and took his seat. After lis-
tening for a few minutes, and hearing from one and another
of his brother trustees, the nature of the governor's plan
and offer; after several of them had, in his presence recog-
nized the governor's proposal as highly favourable, and such
as ought to be accepted, and praised ' his Excellency's gene-
                                              —
rous proposal' as what all must think well of Mr. Tennent,
looking round the Board with the sharp and piercing eye
for which he was' remarkable when strongly excited, rose
and said * Brethren are you mad ? I say, brethren, are
          :           !



you mad ? Rather than accept the offer of the president, I
would set fire to the College edifice at its four corners, and
run away in the light of the flames.' Such was the effect
of this rebuff from a trustee of such known honesty, influence
and decision, that little more was said. The proposal was
laid on the table and never more called up.
   " Mr. Tennent was full of expedients for winning souls to
Christ.  He was remarkably fond of horses ; had a good deal
of skill in the choice and management of them, and was
seldom known to ride or to keep an inferior one. There
was a young man in his congregation, the son of one of his
church members, also distinguished for his attachment to
horses, and for his skill in horsemanship. Mr. Tennent was
very desirous of gaining access to this young man, and of
securing his confldence. But, after every eflort to accomplish
this object was disappointed ; the young man, trembling at
the thought of being addressed on the subject of religion,
avoided his pastor with the utmost vigilance, escaped from
his father's house whenever Mr. Tennent called, and in
every possible way evaded an interview with him.           Mr.
Tennent observed this, and resorted to every contrivance in
his power to overcome the young man's aversion to his com-
pany.    But in vain. Things went on in this way for a con-
siderable time.   In the mean while Mr. Tennent's desire for
an interview became more intense, from hearing that the
young man had an active mind and an amiable temper, and
was considered as, in most respects, very promising by those
who knew him best. One day, when Mr. Tennent was riding
out in his course of family visitation, on a remarkably fleet
horse, he saw this young man about a hundred yards before
         THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR.                        155

bim, coming out from a neighbour's gate, and going toward
bis father's house.   Mr Tennent immediately quickened the
pace of his horse for the purpose of overtaking him.      The
young man, looking back and seeing Mr. Tcnneut coming,
did the same.    Each spurred on his horse, until the contest
became a race at full speed. After running in this manner
between one and two miles, Mr. Tennent, having much the
fleeter horse, overtook the young man, and on coming up to
him said, in a very affable, pleasant manner, Well, Johnny,
                                              *


I thought I should overtake you.        I see you ride a good
animal, but I had a notion that mine could beat him.'      He
thcu entered into familiar conversation with the young man,
adapting all his remarks to what he supposed to be his
favourire pursuits and topics.     After riding a mile or two
together, Mr. Tennent said to him, when they were about to
separate, Johnny, come and see me.
          '
                                          I shall be very glad
to see you ; I know you love a good horse.      I think I have
some horses and colts that will please you. It will give me
real pleasure to show, them to you.'    With this invitation,
and these remarks, they parted. In a few days the young
man, greatly pleased with the manner in which Mr. Tennent
had treated him, accepted his invitation, and called at his
house. Mr. Tennent fulfilled his promise, took him through
his stables and round his farm, and entertained him greatly
to his gratification, without saying one word to him of re-
ligion.   The young man no longer shunned his company,
but put himself in his way, not only without fear but with
pleasui-e, whenever he had an opportunity.     Mr. Tenucut
very soon took occasion, after gaining his confidence, to
address him on the most important of all subjects; and it
was not long before he listened with serious attention, became
hopefully the subject of renewing grace, and was soon united
                                                               -'
with the church of Christ.
   '*
     This excellent man was remarkably skilful, discriminat-
ing, and faithful in dealing with those who    came to him,
professing to be in a state of anxiety or inquiry respecting
their salvation.   He was once visited by a female advanced
in life, one of his stated hearers, who had not borne a very
good character, but who now professed to be deeply anxious
concerning her eternal welfare.      She wept, acknowledged
herself a great sinner, and abounded in language of severe
Belf-CNmiuation, and professions of deep penitence.      I\lr.
 156             THE LOG COLLEGE.
 Tennent thought he saw in her whole air and manner (some-
 thing like over-acting, which, taken in connection with her
 former life; led him to suspect that her professions were not
 VGvy sincere.     He therefore determined at once to put
 them to the test, and said • JMrs.
                            :
                                          ,
                                           you speak of your-
 self as a great sinner ; that is just what we have always
thought of you.      I have no doubt it is very much as you
say.'   The woman, who was indeed a hypocrite, fully ex-
pecting to be hailed with pleasure and confidence as a genu-
ine converb by her minister, was thrown off her guard
by this rebuil'', and rejDlied with strong resentment   :  It's *



no such thing. I'm not chargeable with these sins, I'm
as good as you any day,' and immediately left the house
and with this interview dismissed her serious impressions.
    " At another time Mr. Tennent, in riding out, stopped
opposite the door of a small tavern in his neighbourhood to
make some inquiry. While waiting a moment to obtain
the desired information, a man, evidently intoxicated with
strong drink, came out of the house and accosted him by
name. Finding that Mr. Tennent did not return his salu-
tation with the readiness and familiarity of an acquaintance,
he said ' Mr. Tennent, I believe you do not know me
         :



why, you converted me a few months ago.' ' Ah my            !



friend,' said Mr. Tennent, ' it's like some of my bungling
work.    If the Spirit of God had converted you, we should
not have seen you in this situation.' "


  In the same volume of the Assembly's Missionary
Magazine which contains the biography of the Rev.
William Tennent, Jr., we have from another hand the
three following anecdotes.

   " He was crossing the bay from New York to Elizabeth-
town, in company with two gentlemen who had no great
fondness for clergymen, and who cautiously avoided him for
some time after getting on board the boat. As he usually
spoke loudly, they overheard what he said, and finding him
a cheerful companion, who could converse upon other subjects
besides religion, they ventured a little nearer to him; and at
length they and he engaged in a conversation upon politics.
One of his congregation, who was a fellow-passenger, hap-
pening to overhear a remark he made, stepped up to him, '
         THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR.                                      157

and said, ' Mr. Tennent, please to spiritualize that.'   Spir- '



itualize that !' said Mr. T.,  'you don't know what you are
talking about.'   '  Why, sir, there is no harm in talking
religion, is there?'     'Yes,' replied Mr. T., 'there is a
great deal of harm in it ;   and it is such good folks as you
that always lug religion in by head and shoulders, whether
it is proper or not, that hurt the cause.  If you want to talk
religion, you know where I live, and I know where you
live, and you may call at my house, or I will call at yours,
and I will talk religion with you till you are tired ; but
this is not the time to talk       religion ;   we are   talking poli-
tics.'  This reply, and his conduct in other respects, so
much ingratiated IMr. Tennent with the two gentlemen, as
to furnish him with an opportunity for advantageously in-
troducing conversation upon more important subjects   and          ;


the younger of the two was so much pleased, that on their
arrival at Elizabethtown Point, he insisted upon Mr. Ten-
nent taking his seat in a chair, and he walked from the
Point to Elizabethtown through a muddy road, which, to a
person of Mr. Tennent's age, would have been very incon-
venient, if not impracticable.
   " At New York, Mr.. Tennent went to hear a sermon de-
livered by a transient clergyman, who was often and well
spoken of, but whose manner was singular, and who fre-
quently introduced odd conceits into his sermons, which
tended to excite mirth, rather than to edification.   Upon
leaving the church, a friend asked Mr. Tennent's opinion of
the sermon.    He said it made him think of a man who
should take a bag, and put into it some of the very best su-
perfine wheat flour, a greater quantity of Indian meal, and
some arsenic, and mix them all together. A part of the ser-
mon was of the very best quality, more of it was coarse,
but very wholesome food, and some of it rank poison."
   " Upon another occasion, he went with a friend to hear
&n illiterate carpenter preach at New York and it appeared
                                                    ;


to him that the man denied the doctrine of the perseverance
of the saints.    The next morning jMr. Tennent called upon
his friend, and asked if it appeared so to him.     Upon his
friend replying in the affirmative, Mr, Tennent said,     then      '



I must go and talk with him, and you must go along with
me.'    His friend begged to be excused, but Mr. Tennent
insisted vipon his going, as he had heard the doctrine denied.

         14
158              THE LOG COLLEGE.
They found the carpenter at breakfast. Mr. Tennent asked
if he was the person who had preached last evening. He said
he was.    Then/ said Mr. Teunent, it appeared to me that
             '                           '


you denied the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints j
did I understand you rightly V       Yes, sir, be sure I did/
                                     '


said the carpenter ; that is a doctrine which no man in his
                       '



senses can believe.'    ' I'll tell you,' replied Mr. Tennent,
' that it is the most prccidus doctrine in all the book of Grod.

I will give up my life before I will give that up. I must
talk with you about it.'   The man alleged that he was a
mechanic, who depended upon his trade for the support of
his family, and could not stay to talk; he must mind his
business.   ' I am glad to hear that,' said Mr. Tennent, I        '


love to see men diligent in their lawful callings ;   it   is   their
duty ; but yours is of such a nature that you can work and
talk at the same time ; and I will go with you to where your
business lies, so that your time shall not be wasted.' The
carpenter said he did not want to talk, took his hat and ab-
ruptly went off.     Mr. Tennent followed him. The man
walked faster. Mr. Tennent quickened his pace. At length
the man ran ; so did Mr. Tennent.       But the carpenter was
too fleet for his pursuer ; by his speed he evaded his argu-
ments, and remained in error."

  The following anecdote has been handed down by
         and in substance is confirmed by a one-sided
tradition,
account of the affair, contained in the life of Murray,
the Universalist, who is the person concerned.      Mr.
Tennent's zeal for the truth, and opposition to what he
viewed to be error, were very strong, and Avere mani-
fested whenever an occasion occurred which called for
their exercise.  It so happened that Mr. Murray, an
Englishman, who had adopted from Rclly, the doc-
trines of Universalism, was landed on the Jersey shore
not very remote from        Mr. Tennent's residence.
Though he had not been a Universalist preacher in
England, yet having, while in connection with the
Methodists, both in Ireland and England, been accus-
tomed to public speaking in the way of exhortation, he
was induced, upon his landing at a place on the Jersey
shore called " Good Luck/' to commence preachisjg to
         THE REV. WM. TENNENT, JR                      159

the people.    At first his doctrine of universal salvation
was not clearly and openly announced, but rather
covertly insinuated.      Possessing some wit and elo-
quence, he attracted many hearers, and travelled about
the country, addressing the people wherever he could
get an opportunity.      Soon after he commenced this
career, he came into the congregation of Freehold, and
lodged with one of Mr. Tennent's hearers. As soon
as this watchful pastor hoard that the wolf had entered
among the sheep of his flock, taking with him some of
his neighbours, he went to the house where Mr.
Murray was staying, and demanded of him by what
authority he had assumed the office of preacher.'
Murray answered him by asking, by what authority
he asked him such a question. An altercation ensued
Mr. Tennent continuing peremptorily to demand his
authority to preach, and he as pertinaciously evading a
direct answer.    It docs not appear, however, from Mr.
Murray's account, the only written one which Ave have
seen, that Mr. Tennent then knew that he was a Uni-
versalist; for in the interview nothing was said on that
subject, nor on any other point of doctrine.      It would
seem that Mr. Tennent considered him as an irregular,
unauthorized itinerant, who, not being in connection
with any denomination of Christians, ought not to be
encouraged.     And this, according to Mr. Murray's
own account, was the exact state of the case. Ho
stood entirely alone, and professed to hold ecclesiastical
connection with no body on earth yet this man became
                                   ;


the founder of a large sect in this country, for the
Univgrsalists acknowledge him as a father.          But as
the course of error is always downAvard, most of his
followers have departed far from his opinions ,^i» other
doctrinal points, as appears by his life.
                        CHAPTER XIII.

            MEMOIR OF THE REV. CHARLES TENNENT.


Birth   —           —         —
       Immigration Edncation Settlement in the ministry at Whiteclay
            —                                            —
  Creek Grea^ revival under the preaching of Mr. Whitefield Removal
  and death.


   From an oii^inal document, a small memorandum-
book, kept by the Rev. William Tennent, sen., we
learn that his fourth son, Charles, was born at Colerain,
in the county of Down, on the third day of May, in
the year 1711, and was baptized by the Rev. Richard
Donnell.   At the time of his father's emigration from
Ireland, he was therefore, a boy of seven years of
age.   He, as well as his older brothers, received his
education under the paternal roof, or rather in the Log
College.   He appears, however, to have been less
distinguished than either of his brothers ; but seems to
have been a respectable minister of the gospel, and
was early settled in the Presbyterian congregation of
Whiteclay Creek, in the state of Delaware.          Soon
after his settlement in this place, the great revival
under the preaching of Whitefield commenced, and
was very powerful in this congregation. Dinging this
remarkable season of divine influence, Mr. Whitefield
spent some days with Mr. Charles Tennent, and
assisted him in the administration of the Lord's
Supper preaching to vast multituctes of people every
                ;


day of the solemnity, which continued four days,
according to custom.       This information the writer
obtained many years ago, from one of the subjects of
the revival, Mrs. Douglass, the sister of Charles
        (160)
        THE REV. CHARLES TENNENT.                      161

Thompson, Secretary of the Continental Congress, and
grandmother of the late Rev. James Douglass, of
Fayette ville. North Carolina, so highly esteemed as a
spiritual,  searching, evangelical preacher.   This old
lady appeared to me to be as eminently pious as any
person I ever knew.     She informed me, that while Mr.
AVliitefield spoke at the tables, in administering the
sacrament, he poured forth such a flood of tears, that
his cambric handkerchief was wet as if it had been
dipped in water.     She spoke of that day as by far the
most glorious she had ever witnessed. Her account of
the Rev. Charles Tennent Avas, that he was a plain,
good preacher, but not distinguished for great abilities.
I was surprised to find that this pious old lady was no
longer a member of the Presbyterian church, but had
long ago joined the communion of the Seceders.
Upon mquiry it appeared that this change had been
made by her and some others, in consef[uence of         the
union entered into with the Old Side, in 1758.     The
congregation of Whiteclay Creek, of Avhich ]Mr. Ten-
nent was the pastor, was situated in the neighbourhood
of some congregations, the ministers and members of
which opposed the revival, and represented the whole
as a delusion of the devil.
   The friends, and especially the subjects of the
revival, could not but consider these opposers as the
enemies of vital piety, and therefore felt no disposition
to hold any fellowship with them.    They were there-
fore astonished and offended, when they understood
that a union between the two parties had been consum-
mated.   As soon as Mr. Tennent returned from the
Synod in Philadelphia, where the union had been
agreed on, Mrs. Douglass went to him, and expostu-
lated with him on the subject. " Oh     Mr. Tennent,"
                                         !



said she, " how could you consent to enter into com-
munion with those who so wickedly reviled the
glorious work of God's grace in this land ?     As for
myself, I never can and never Avill, until they profess
repentance for their grievous     sin,   in   speaking con-
        14*
162            THE LOG COLLEGE.

temptuously of the work of the Holy Spirit." And
accordingly, she went and joined the Seceders, who had
begun to form societies in several parts of Pennsyl-
vania, and continued in their communion until her
dying day. But her heart was still with the evan-
gelical part of the Presbyterian church, and all her
children entered into the communion of that church.
Two of her sons, James Douglass, and Daniel Doug-
lass, some forty years ago, were pious, intelligent, and
estimable elders in the Presbyterian church in Alex-
andria, D. C, of which the Rev. Dr. Muir, was the
respected pastor.   No doubt, the views of this good
lady in regard to the union, so happily formed between
the dissentient parties in the Presbyterian church,
were narrow, yet they were very natural, and arose
from her acquaintance with the Old Side party, being
confined to those immediately around her, who had
taken a very active part in ridiculing and maligning
this blessed reformation, by which many sinners were
converted, and turned from darkness to light, and from
the power of Satan unto God.         The writer, in his
youth, has known some people who would indulge in
the most violent wrath, at any favourable mention of
Mr. Whitefield ; and yet they professed to believe the
very doctrines which he preached.      A   large part of
those, however, who belonged to the Old Side, were
actuated by no such spirit but were quiet, orderly,
                             ;


well informed Christians, Avho were very careful in the
religious instruction of their own families, and very
strict and conscientious in all the duties of religion.
   Some years before his death, Mr. Charles Tenncnt
removed from Whiteclay Creek, to Buckingham church,
in Maryland, where he ended his days, and where, it is
presumed, his remains were interred.       Of his latter
days, and of the circumstances of his decease, we
have received no authentic information.
   It may be proper, however, to observe that he had a
son, the Rev. William M. Tennent, who, after receiv-
ing a finished education, entered the holy ministry, and
         THE REV. CHARLES TENNENT.                  163

became pastor of the Presbyterian church in Abington,
in the vicinity of Philadelphia.    He married a daugh-
ter of    the Rev. Dr. Kudgers, of Noav York, and
received the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity
from Yale College.
   He was a man of great sweetness of temper and po-
liteness of manners, and was distinguished for his hos-
pitality.   His house was seldom without the company of
friends and act{uaintances ; and all who* had the privi-
lege of visiting at this pleasant retreat, were delighted
with their cordial reception and kind entertainment.
His last sickness was long, but in it he was in a
great measure exempt from pain, and w^as blessed with
an uninterrupted assurance of the favour of God. The
writer, then residing in Philadelphia, frequently saw
and conversed with him ; and he must say, that he
never saw a person in a sweeter, calmer, happier state
of mind, and it continued for many weeks.        He died
in the year 1811 or 1812, and had no children.
   It is believed that no male descendant of any branch
of the Tennent family now remains in this part of the
country ; though there are several in South Carolina.
                        CHAPTER XIV.


                    THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.


                            —
Educated in the Log College Licensed to preach by the New Castle Pres-
        —
  bytery First settled at Shrewsbury, N. J.— Removes to New London-
                        —                                     —
  derry in Pennsylvania Great revival in that congregation His letter
  to Mr. Prince —                                              —
                   How far justifiable in violating rules of order Dr. Fin-
  ley's character of him—                     —
                          Mr. Davies's Elegy Publications.


  The follomng character of Mr. Samuel Blair is given
by Dr. Finley, in his funeral sermon, occasioned by
the death of this eminent servant of Jesus Ckrist.
   " He was blessed with early piety. On his dying bed he
could recollect with delight, various evidences of gracious
influences in his tender years.  By this means he was hap-
pily preserved from being ever engaged in vicious courses,
and at once grew in stature and in grace. Religion, far from
being a flashy thing with him, was rational and solid ; mani-
festing itself in unreserved obedience to all Grod's command-
ments.
   " To a holy disposition was added a great genius, capable
of the highest improvement. He had a deep and penetrat-
ing judgment, a clear and regular way of conceiving things,
and a retentive memory. He was an indefatigable student,
a calm and impartial searcher after truth.     He thought for
himself, and was determined in his conclusions, only by evi-
dence.    He had a very considerable store of critical learn-
ing, and was especially conversant with the Scriptures in the
original languages. How great his attainments in philosophy
were was known by few ; for in his last years his thirst for
knowledge did sensibly increase, and he greatly improved
himself therein.    He studied several branches of the mathe-
matics, and especially geometry and astronomy; nor will

          (164)
              THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                       165

these seem tasteless studies to one who had such a savour
of liviug piety, when it is considered that he saw the glory
of God in all his works, and admired and adored him in all.
He delighted to see the invisible things of Him, even his
                         .'




eternal  power and Godhead, manifested by the things that
are made.'     It was edifying to him to trace the footsteps of
the divine wisdom in particulars, and the infinite reach of
projection in the frame and structure of the whole.
    " But his critical and philosophical learning, and his large
acquaintance with geography and history, were exceeded by
his knowledge in divinity.       This was the business of his
life, and herein he made such proficiency as few of his stand-

ing in the ministry have attained to.           Here he found
what perfectly answered his refined, spiritual taste. The
contemplation of redeeming love did much more elevate his
soul than that of the works of creation ; for therein he saw
the wisdom, the power, the justice and the love of God more
clearly displayed.     On every subject he had a set of most
accurately studied thoughts.      He had often weighed in an
impartial balance every theological controversy; was a solid
disputant, and able to defend all necessary truth.      He was
a judicious casuist, and could very satisfyingly resolve du-
bious and perplexed cases of conscience.       He was not only
a proficient in systematic divinity, which is comparatively a
small attainment, but a great textuary.       He studied the
sacred oracles above all other things, and that it was not in
vain, manifestly appeared from his great ability in < dividing
the word of truth.'    He could bring out of his treasure
                                   '



things new and old.'     How clearly and fully would he ex-
plain his subject   with what irresistible arguments confirm
                     !


the truth !  With what admirable dexterity accommodate it
to his audience  !  And with what solemn pungency did he
impress it on the conscience  !  He spoke like one who knew
the worth of souls, and felt in himself the surest constraints
of love to God and man.
   " As to his religious principles, he was of noble and gene-
rous sentiments.    He had not ' so learned Christ,' as to be
furious in his zeal for mere circumstantial or indiflferent
points.  He understood the nature of religion better than
to place it in things in which it does not consist ; and was
too much exWcised about ' the great matters of the law,' to
be equally zealous for * mint, anise, and cummin.' Though
 166               THE LOG COLLEGE.
 sacrifice be good, yet he had learned that ' mercy is better.'   He
 believed,   and that in accordance with the Scriptures, that
the communion of saints is of much greater importance than
many of those things in which Christians diflfer in judgment,
and was, therefore, far from such narrowness as to make
 every principle and practice which he thought to be good
and true, a term of communion ; and he was as far from the
 contrary extreme of indiiference to the truth and laxncss of
discipline.    As he was diligent in the exercise of his minis-
terial office to the utmost of his strength, not sparing him-
self, so God did very remarkably succeed his faithful minis-
trations to the conversion of many souls.          He was the
spiritual father of great numbers.     I have had acquaintance
with Christians in different places, where he only preached
occasionally, who gave all hopeful evidences of a sacred con-
version, and acknowledged him to be the instrument of it.
He was strict in discipline, yet so as to be still candid ; and
severely just, yet so as to be still compassionate and tender.
And with what wisdom and circumspection he judged in
difficult cases, his brethren of the Presbytery well know.
We waited for his sage remarks, and heard attentively his
prudent reasonings ; and after his words how seldom had
any one occasion to speak again        !  His speech dropped
                                           '


upon us, and we waited for him as for the rain.' He has
been eminently serviceable to the church, by assisting
several promising youths in their studies for the ministry
                                                              j
who, becoming learned by his instructions, and formed
by his example, are now wise, and useful, and faithful
ministers.
   " He was remarkably grave and solemn in his aspect and
deportment, yet of a cheerful, even, and pleasant temper.
And in conversation with his intimate friends, facetious and
witty, when the season and concurring circumstances would
allow him to indulge in that way ; in respect of which his
prudence could well direct him.      He was of a generous and
liberal disposition ; far from being niggardly, or covetous
was forward in acts of charity to the indigent, according to
Lis ability, and all his conduct discovered a noble indifference
toward earthly things.
  " If we consider him as a friend, he was as ten and stead-
fast,and might as much be depended on as any I ever knew.
He was remote from precarious and fickle humours his ap- :
            THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                          167

probation was not easily obtained, nor easily lost. Nor wag
be a friend only in compliment, but would cheerfully under-
go hardships, and suffer disadvantages, in order to do a
friendly office.   He was conscientiously punctual in attend-
ing ecclesiastical judicatures, presbyteries or synods.     His
presence might be depended on, if nothing extraordinary in-
tervened, as certainly as the appointed day.      He was not
absent on every trifling inconvenience.    In this respect his
conduct was truly exemplary, and demonstrated his constant
care for the public interests of religion.   So great was his
attention to matters of common concern, as to incline him
rather to expose himself, than balk an opportunity of doing
good.   It is well known that his going upon an urgent call,
in a weakly state of body, and in an unsettled season, to a con-
vention of the trustees of New Jersey College, gave occasion
to that fatal sickness, from which he never fully recovered.
   " In social life, also, he was worthy of imitation. As a
husljand, he was afiectionate and kind ; as a father, tender
and indulgent. In him condescension and authority were
duly tempered.    There was that in him that could engage
love, and command reverence at the same time.     Who that
was acquainted with him would not be ready to say, happy*


was the family of which he was the head, and happy the
congregation that enjoyed his ministry ; happy the judica-
ture of which he was a member ; and happy the person who
was favoured with his friendship ?' He was a public bless-
ing to the church, an honour to his people, an ornament to
his profession who magnified his office.'
                    '
                                            He spoke as he
believed ; he practised as he preached ; he lived holy, and
died joyfully.
   " For a long course of years, he had a habitual, unwaver-
ing assurance of his interest in the favour of God, and that
a blessed and glorious eternity would one day open upon
him ; which were his own emphatical words on his dying
bed.   This his assurance was solid and scriptural, arising
from the many and clear experiences he had of gracious
communications to his soul.     He was made sensible in his
early years of his guilty state by nature as well as practice
felt his inability to deliver himself; saw plainly that he
lay at mercy, and that it was entirely at God's pleasure to
save or reject him.   This view of the case created in him a
restless concern, until the way of life through Jesus Christ
168                 THE LOG COLLEGE.
was graciously discovered to him.        Then he saw that God
could save him in consistency with all the honours of gov-
erning justice; for that the obedience and sufferings of
Christ, in the room of sinners, have made a sufficient atone-
ment for sin. He saw that Christ was a Saviour every way
complete and suitable for him.   His soul approved the Di-
vine and glorious plan ; and freely disclaiming all depend-
ence on his own righteousness, wisdom, and strength, most
gladly accepted the offer of the gospel, that Christ should
be his   '   wisdom, righteousness,   sanctification, and   redemp-
tion.'   Strict holiness was his choice, and it was the delight-
ful business   of his life, to do always those things which
pleased his Heavenly Father.      And on his dying bed he
had the full approbation and testimony of his conscience, as
to the general bent and tenor of his life. These particulars
are the heads of what he himself told me in his last sick-
ness, and are delivered in the same order, as near as I can
possibly recollect,
   " When he approached near his end he expressed most
ardent desires ' to depart and be with Christ ;' and especially
the three last days of his life were taken up in this exer-
cise.  Many gracious words he spoke, gave an affectionate
farewell to his beloved, sorrowful consort, and dear chil-
dren ; tenderly committed them to the Divine mercy and
faithfulness, and fervently prayed that the blessing of the
Most High might be vouchsafed to them, and rest upon
them ; which prayer, I hope, will be answered. His last
words, a minute or two before his departure, were,          the
                                                              '



Bridegroom is come, and we shall now have all things.'
And thus, under a gleam of heaven, he breathed out his
last."


   The Rev. Samuel Davies, who had received nearly
his whole education under the tuition of   Samuel Blair,
was deeply affected when he heard the sad tidings of
the death of his revered and beloved instructor.      He
was then residing at Hanover, in Virginia, where he
had gone to occupy an important station, as will be
particularly related in another part of this work. Mr.
Davies, who possessed ardent affections, and a lively im-
agination, and frequently gave indulgence to his poetic
                THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                               169

genius, which, ifit liacl been cultivated, might have

rendered him conspicuous in that department, now
invoked his sacred muse, and composed an elegy of
many lines on his admired friend and tutor.        The
poem is more remarkable for pathos, than for smooth
versification. The only reason for noticing it here, is
to show the opinion entertained of                 Mr. Blair by this
first of American preachers.                 A few exttracts will be
sufficient to answer our purpose.


   "           Blair is no more   —then   this poor world has lost
        As rich a jowol as her stores could boast
        Heaven, in just vengeance, has recalled again
        Its faithful envoy from the sons of men,
        Advanced him from his pious toils below,
        lu raptures there, in kindred plains to glow."

   " 0, had not the mournful       news divulged,
        INIy mind had still the pleasing dream indulged
       Still fancied Blair with health and vigour blessed,
       With some grand purpose labouring in his breast;
       In studious thought pursuing truth divine.
       Till the full demonstration round him shine
       Or, from the sacred desk proclaiming loud
       His blaster's message to the attentive crowd,
       While heavenly trutli with l)right conviction glares,
       And coward error shrinks and disappears         ;

       While quick remorse the hardy sinner feels.
       And Calvary's balm the bleeding conscience heals."
   " Oh    !   could the Muse's languid colours paint
       The man, the scholar, student, preacher, saint,
       I'd place his imago full in public view ;
       His friends should know more than before they knew.
       His foes, astonished at his virtues, gaze.
       Or shrink confounded from the oppressive blaze.
       To trace his ))riglit example, all should turn.
       And with the bravest emulation bura.
       His name should my poor lays iniuKn-talize,
       Till he, to attest his character, arise,
       And the Great Judge th' encomium ratifies."

   The following lines will serve to show who were the
persons, in Mr. Davies's estimation, who deserved to
           15
170' »                  THE LOG COLLEGE.

be handed down to posterity, as the chosen friends and
faithful coadjutors of Mr. Bhiir in his evangelical labours.
They were all alumni of the Log College, or of Mr.
Blair's school at New Londonderry.          And if we look
at the men educated in this school, we cannot but en-
tertain an exalted opinion of Mr. Samuel Blair, as an
instructor.

     '
         Surviving remnant of the sacred tribe,
         Who knew the worth these plaintive lays describe
         Tennents, three worthies of immortal fame,
         Brethren by office, birth, in heart and name.
         FiNLEY, who full enjoyed the unbosomed friend ;
         RoDGERS, whose soul he like his own refined,
         When ail attention, eager to admit
         The flowing knowlellge, at his reverend feet
         Raptured we sat and thou above the rest,
                              ;



         Brother and image of the dear deceased.
         Surviving Blair Oh, let spontaneous flow
                          !



         The floods of tributary grief you owe.
                                  —
         And in your number if so mean a name
         May the sad honour of chief mourner claim.
         Oh may my filial tears more copious flow,
            !


         And swell the tide of universal woe.
         Oh Blair whom all the tenderest names commend,
            !       !


         My father, tutor, pastor, brother, friend
         While distance, the sad privilege denies,
         O'er thy dear tomb, to vent my bursting eyes,
                              —
         The Muse erects the solo return allowed
         This humble monument of gratitude."


   As the remarkable and impressive solemnity of Sam-
uel ]>lair's appearance, especially in the pulpit, has
been noticed by all who have given any account of him,
it will be gratifying to have the same confirmed by
such a man as Samuel Davies, who himself was so dis-
tinguished for dignity and solemnity in the pulpit, that
one of the most excellent laymen I ever knew, told me
that he went to hear Mr. Davies preach when he was
just grown up, and that the sight of the man and the
mere utterance of his text " INIartlui, Martha," &c., made
 a deeper impression on liim than             all    the sermons he
 had ever heard before.
          THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                    171

    "Now, in the sacred desk, I see him rise,
     And well he acts the herald of the skies.
     Graceful solemnity, and striking awe
     Sit in his looks, and deep attention draw.
                         —
     His speaking aspect in the bloom of youth
              —
     Renewed declares unutterable truth.
     Unthinking crowds grow solemn as they gaze,
     And read his awful message in his face."
   The principal writings of the Rev. Samuel Blair
were collected by his brother John after his death,
and published in Philadelphia, in the year 1754.
   This volume contains seven sermons, all on highly
important and practical subjects, which are treated in
a very solemn and methodical manner.        His style is
pcrsjiicuous, but neither terse nor elegant    but the
                                                ;


thoughts are those of a profound thinker.
   To these sermons is appended an elaborate treatise
on Predestination and Reprobation, evincing that the
author was a thorough-going Calvinist.     This treatise
has been recently republished in Baltimore.        This
volume also contains his " Vindication," written by
the direction of the Presbytery of New Brunswick, in
answer to " The Government of the Church," &c., by
the Rev, John Thompson.
   The Rev. Samuel Blair was a native of Ireland,
but came early to this country, and received his edu-
cation in the Log College, under Mr. Wm. Tennent,
sen., at Neshaminy.       He must, indeed, have been
among the first pupils of this institution. After finish-
ing his classical and theological studies, Mr, Blair put
liimself under the care of the New Castle Presbytery,
hj which body he was, in due time, licensed to preach
the gospel.   Soon after his licensure, he was settled
in the Presbyterian congregation at Shrewsbury, in
New Jersey. He laboured in this field for five or six
years, when he received an earnest call to settle in
New Londonderry, otherwise called Fagg's Manor, in
the State of Pennsylvania,     Here he instituted a clas-
sical school, similar in its purpose to that of Mr. Ten-
nent, in Neshaminy, in which some of the ablest min-
isters of the Presbyterian church received either the
172             THE LOG COLLEaE.
•whole, or tlie more substantial parts of their education.
Among these were the Rev. Samuel Davies, the Rev.
Alexander Cummings, the Rev. John Rodgers, D. D.,
the Rev. James Finley, and the Rev, Hugh Henry.
Mr. Blair's settlement at Shrewsbury, was in the year
1734, when he was only twenty-two years of age. The
Presbytery of New Brunswick did not exist until the
year 1738, of which Mr. Blair was one of the original
members.
  When he received the call from New Londonderry,
in Chester county, Pennsylvania, he left it to the Pres-
bytery to decide whether he should go or stay. After
mature deliberation, they advised him to accept the
call, as they were of opinion it would introduce him
into a wider field of usefulness.
   There are no records extant, from which we can
learn any particulars respecting the fruits of Mr.
Blair's labours at Shrew^sbury.     Here he commenced
his ministerial work, and as he was a faithful, able, and
zealous preacher of the truth as it is in Jesus, we en-
tertain no doubt that some of the good seed which he
sowed, fell into good ground and brought forth fruit.
The vicissitudes of that congregation have been remark-
able.   For a wdiile it was flourishing, and had many
respectable members, but it became apparently extinct,
and the house of worship was burned but after being
                                       ;


dead for some years it was resuscitated ; it now pro-
mises to flourish again.
   Under his ministry at New Londonderry, there oc-
curred a very remarkable revival of religion, of which
he wrote a particular narrative.    The congregation at
Fagg's Manor consisted almost entirely of emigrants
from the north of Ireland, and had been formed a
number of years, but had never enjoyed the ministry
of a stated pastor.   His settlement among them took
place in November, 1739     ;  although he was not in-
stalled as their pastor until the month of April, 1740.
   The revival referred to above commenced a short
time after his settlement in the place.   The following
            THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                              173

account is contained in the " Narrative" which he
wrote in a letter to the Rev. Mr. Prince, of Boston,
in his "Christian History."

        " New Londonderry in Pennsylvania, Aug. 6th, 1744.
               —
   " Rev. Sir I do most gladly comply with your desire
in sending you some accouu't of the glorious appearance of
God in a way of special grace for      us in this cougregation,
and other parts of this country; and am of the same judg-
ment with you and other pious and judicious people, that
the collecting and publishing of such accounts may greatly
tend to the glory of our lledecmer, and the increase of his
triumphs.     I much rejoice in the publication of such a col-
lection in the Christian History, so far as it     is   already car-
ried on ; I think   it   may serve to many excellent purposes,
and be a happy mean of advancing the dear interests of
our glorious Redeemer's kingdom, both in the present age
and the ages to come. And I cannot but look upon myself
as called of God in duty, being thus invited to it by you,
Rev. Sir, to put to a hand, among many others of my reve-
rend fathers and brethren on both sides of the Atlantic, to
the carrying on of the design of said history, containing
accounts of the revival and propagation of religion in this
remarkable day of grace.      I cannot, indeed, give near so
full and particular a relation of the revival of religion here
as I might have done, had I had such a thing in view at
the time when God was most eminently carrying on his
work among us. I entirely neglected then to note down any
particulars in writing, for which I have been often sorry
since ; so that this account must bo very imperfect to what
it might otherwise have been.
   " That it may the more clearly appear that the Lord has
indeed carried on a work of true real religion among us of
late years, I conceive it will be useful to give a brief general
view of the state of religion in these parts, before this re-
markable season. I doubt not then but there were some
sincerely religious people    up and down   ;   and there were, I
believe, a considerable number in the several congregations,
pretty exact, according to their education, in the observance
of the external forms of religion, not only as to attendance
upon public ordinances on the Sabbath, but also as           to the
practice of family worship, and, perhaps, secret prayer too ;
        15*
174             THE LOG COLLEGE.
but with these things the most part seemed to all appearance
to rest contented, and to satisfy their consciences with a
dead formality in religion.   If they performed these duties
pretty punctually in their seasons, and as they thought with
a good meaning out of conscience, and not just to obtain a
name for religion among men, then they were ready to
conclude that they were truly and sincerely religious.      A
very lamentable ignorance of the main essentials of true
practical religion, and the doctrines nextly relating thcre-
imto, very generally prevailed.    The nature and necessity
of the new birth was but little known or thought of.      The
necessity of a conviction of sin and misery by the Holy
Spirit opening and applying the law to the conscience, in
order to a saving closure with Christ, was hardly known at
all to the most.   It was thought that if there was any need
of a heart-distressing sight of the soul's danger, and fear of
divine wrath, it was only needful for the grosser sort of sin-
ners ; and for any others to be deeply exercised this way
(as there might sometimes be before, some rare instances
observable) this was generally looked upon to be a great
evil and temptation that had betallen those persons.      The
common names for such soul-concern were, melancholy,
trouble of mind, or despair.    These terms were in common,
so far as I have been acquainted, indifferently used as
synonymous; and trouble of mind was looked upon as a
great evil, which all persons that made any sober profession
and practice of religion ought carefully to avoid. There
                                                      -



was scarcely any suspicion at all, in general, of any danger
of depending upon self-righteousness, and not upon the
righteousness of Christ alone for salvation.      Papists and
Quakers would be readily acknowledged guilty of this
crime, but hardly any professed Presbyterian.      The neces-
sity of being first in Christ by a vital union, and in a justi-
fied state, before our religious services can be well pleasing
and acceptable to God, was very little understood or thought
of; but the common notion seemed to be, that if people
were aiming to l)e in the way of duty as well as they could,
as they imagined, there was no reason to be much afraid.
  " According to these principles, and this ignorance of
some of the most soul-concerning truths of the gospel,
people were v(a-y generally, through the land, careless
at heart, and stupidly indifferent about the great concerns
                  THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                             175

of  eternity.   There was very little appearance of any
hearty-eugagedness in religion ; and indeed the wise, for the
most part, were in a great degree asleep with the foolish.
It was sad to see with what a careless behaviour the public
ordinances were attended, and how people were given to
unsuitable worldly discourse on the Lord's holy day.          In
public coujpanies, especially at weddings, a vain and frothy
lightness was apparent in the deportment of many pro-
fessors; and in some places, very extravagant follies, as
horse-running, fiddling, and dancing, pretty much obtained
on those occasions.
   " Thus religion lay, as it were, a dying, and ready to expire
its last breath of life in this part of the visible church ; and
it was in the spring of 1740 when the God of salvation

was pleased to visit us, with the blessed eft'usions of his Holy
Spirit, in an eminent manner.      The first very open and pub-
lic appearance of this gracious visitation in these parts, was
in the congregation which God has committed to my charge.
This congregation has not been erected above fourteen or
fifteen years from this time; the place is a new settlement,
generally settled with people from Ireland (as all our con-
gregations in Pennsylvania, except two or three, chiefly are
made up of people from that kingdom).* I am the first
minister they have ever had settled in the place, having
been regularly liberated fi-om my former charge, in East
Jersey, above an hundred miles north-eastward from hence ;
the reverend presbytery of New Brunswick, of which I had
the comfort of being a member, judging it to be my duty,
for   sundry reasons,  remove from thence. At the ear-
                          to
nest invitation of the people here, I came to them in the
beginning of November, 17o9 ; accepted a call from them
that winter, and was formally installed and settled among
them as their minister in April following. There were
some hopefully pious people here at my first coming, which
was great encouragement and comfort to me.
  * " It may be convenient here to observe, that in Ireland are three
different .«orts of pecijile, deriving from three several nations. 1. Those
who descend from the ancient Irish and these are generally Roman
                                      ;


Catholics.   2; Those who descend from iuieestors who came from Eng-
hmd and these are generally Church of England men. 3. Those who
      ;


descend from ancestors who came from Scotland since the Reformation        ;

and these are generally Presbyterians, who chiell}' inhabit the north-
erly parts of Ireland: and these are the people who have of late years, ia
great numbers, removed thence into these American regions.
176             TUE LOG COLLEGE.
   " I had some view and sense of the deplorable condition
of the land in general ; and accordingly the scope of my
preaching through that first winter after I came here, was
mainly calculated for persons in a natural unregenerate
state. I endeavoured, as the Lord enabled me, to open up and
prove from his word the truths which I judged most ne-
cessary for such as were in that state to know and believe, in
order to their conviction and conversion.    I endeavoured to
deal searchingly and solemnly with them; and through the
concurring blessing of God I had knowledge of four or five
brought under deep convictions that winter.
   " In the beginning of March I took a journey into East
Jersey, and was abroad for two or three Sabbaths.           A
neighbouring minister, who seemed to be in earnest for the
awakening and conversion of secure sinners, and whom I
had obtained to preach a Sabbath to my people in my
absence, preached to them, I think, on the first Sab-
bath after I left home.    His subject was the dangerous and
awful case of such as continue unregenerate and unfruitful
under the means of grace. The text was Luke xiii. 7.
' Then said he to the dresser of his vineyard. Behold, these


three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find
none; cut it down, why cumbereth it the ground?' LTuder
that sermon there was a visible appearance of much soul-
concern among the hearers ; so that some burst out with
an audible noise into bitter crying ; a thing not known in
these parts before.    After I had come home, there came a
young man to my house under deep trouble about the state
of his soul, whom I had looked upon as a pretty light,
merry sort of a youth ; he told me that he was not any-
thing concerned about himself at the time of hearing the
above-mentioned sermon, nor afterwards, till the next day
that he went to his labour, which was grubbing, in order
to clear some new ground.      The first grub he set about was
a pretty large one, with a high top, and when he had cut
the roots, as it fell down, these words came instantly to his
remembrance, and as a spear to his heart, ' cut it down, why
cumbereth it the ground V So, thought he, must I be cut
down by the justice of Grod, for the burning of hell, unless
I get into another state than I am now in.      He thus came
into very great and abiding distress, which, to all ap-
pearance, has had a happy issue; his conversation bciug to
this day as becomes the gospel of Christ.
            THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                            177

  ''The news of this very public appearance of deep soul-
concernamong my people met me a hundred miles from
home. I was very joyful to hear of it, in hopes that God
was about to carry on an extensive work of converting
grace amongst them ; and the first sermon I preached
after my return to them, was from Matthew vi. 33.     —
                                                      Seek'



ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness.'  After
opening up and explaining the parts of the text, when, in
the improvement, I came to press the injunction in the text
upon the unconverted and ungodly, and ofiered this as one
reason among others, why they should now henceforth first
of all seek the kingdom and righteousness of God, viz :
that they had neglected too long to do so already ; this
consideration seemed to come and cut like a sword u])on
several in the congregation; so that while I was speaking
upon it, they could no longer contain, but burst out in the
most bitter mourning. I desired them, as much as possible,
to restrain themselves from making any noise that would
hinder themselves or others from hearing what was spoken ;
and often afterwards I had occasion to repeat the same
counsel.    I still advise people to endeavour to moderate and
bound their passions, but not so as to resist or stifle their
conviction.     The number of the awakened increased very
fast ; frefjuentl}'- under sermons there were some newly
convicted and brought into deep distress of soul about their
perishing estate.      Our Sabbath assemblies soon became
vastly large; many people, from almost all parts around,
inclining very much to come where there was such ap-
pearance of the divine power and presence.        I think there
was scarcely a sermon or lecture preached here through that
whole summer, but there were manifest evidences of im-
pressions on the hearers ; and many times the impressions
'wore very great and gcnei'al ; several would be overcome
and fainting ; others deeply sobbing, hardly able to contain
others crying in a most dolorous manner; many others
more silently weeping ; and a solemn concern appearing in
the countenances of many others.          And sometimes the
soul-exercises of some (though comparatively but very few)
would so far affect their bodies as to occasion some strange
unusual bodily motions. I had opportunities of speaking
particularly with a great many of those, who afforded such
outward tokens of inward soul-concern in the time of public
178               THE LOG COLLEGE.
worship and hearing of the word; indeed, many came to
me, of themselves, in their distress, for private instruction
and counsel and I found, so far as I can remember, that
              ;


with by far the greater part their apparent concern in pub-
lic was not a transient qualm of conscience, or merely a
floating commotion of the aifections ; but a rational fixed
conviction of their dangerous, perishing estate.  They could
generally offer as a convictive evidence of their being in an
unconverted, miserable estate, that they were utter stran-
gers to those dispositions, exercises, and experiences of soul
in religion, which they heard laid down from Grod's word,
as the inseparable characters of the truly regenerate people
of God, even such as before had something of the form of
religion ; and I think the greater number were of this sort
and several had been pretty exact and punctual in the per-
formance of outward duties ; they saw they had been con-
tenting themselves with the form without the life and
power of godliness ; and that they had been taking peace to
their consciences from, and depending upon, their own
righteousness, and not the righteousness of Jesus Christ.
   " In a word, they saw that true practical religion was
quite another thing than they had conceived it to be, or had
any true experience of. There were likewise many up and
down the land, brought under deep, distressing convietions
that summer, who had lived very loose lives, regardless of
the very externals of religion.    In this congregation, I be-
lieve there   were very few that wove not stirred up to some
solemn thoughtfulncss and concern more than usual about
their souls.    The general carriage and behaviour of people
was soon very visibly altered. Those awakened were much
given to reading in the Holy Scriptures, and other good
books.    Excellent books that had lain by much neglected,
were then much perused, and lent from one to another; aud-
it was a peculiar satisfaction to people, to find how exactly
the doctrines they heard daily preached, harmonized with
the doctrines contained and taught by great and godly men
in other parts, and former times.    The subjects of discourse
almost always, when any of them were together, were the
matters of religion and great concerns of their souls.     All
unsuitable, worldly, vain discourse on the Lord's day, seemed
to be laiA aside among them; indeed, for anything that ap-
peared, there seemed to be almost a universal reformation in
this I'cspcct in our public assemblies on the Lord's day.
           THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR,                          179

   " There was an earnest desire in people after opportunities
for public worship   and hearing the word. I appointed, in
the spring, to preach every Friday through the summer,
when I was at home,^nd those meetings were well attended
and at several of them the power of the Lord was remark-
ably with us.    The main scope of my preaching through
that summer, was laying open the deplorable state of man
by nature since the fall, our ruined, exposed case by the
breach of the first covenant, and the awful condition of such
as were not in Christ, giving the marks and characters of
Buch as were in that condition ; and, moreover, laying open
the way of recovery in the new covenant, through a Mediator,
with the nature and necessity of faith in Christ, the Mediator,
&c.    I laboured much on the last mentioned heads, that the
people might have right apprehensions of the gospel-method
of life and salvation.  I treated much on the way of sinners
closing with Christ by faith, and obtaining a right peace to
an awakened wounded conscience ; showing that persons were
not to take peace to themselves on account of their repent-
ings, sorrows, prayers, and reformations ; nor to make these
things the grounds of their adventuring themselves upon
Christ and his righteousness, and of their expectations of
life by him ; and that neither were they to obtain or seek
peace in extraordinary ways, by visions, dreams, or immediate
inspirations, but by an understanding view, and believing
persuasion of the way of life as revealed in the gospel,
through the suretyship, obedience and sufferings of Jesus
Christ ; with a view of the suitableness and sutiiciency of
that mediatory righteousness of Christ, for the justificatiuu
and life of law-condemned siunei's ; and thereupon freely ac-
cepting him for their Saviour, heartily consenting to and being
well pleased with the way of salvation, and venturing their
all upon his mediation, from the warrant and encouragement
aiforded of God thereunto in his word, by his free offer,
authoritative command, and sure promise to those that so
believe.   I endeavoured to show the fruits and evidences of
a true faith, &c.
  "After some time, many of the convinced and distressed
afforded very hopeful, satisfying evidence that the Lord had
brought them to a true closure with Jesus Christ; and that
their distresses   and   fears   had been in a great measure re-
moved   in a right gospel-way, by believing in       the Son of
180                THE LOG COLLEGE.
God.    Several of them bad very remarkable and sweet de-
liverances this way.    It was very agreeable to bear tbeir
accounts, how that when they were in the deepest perplexity
and darkness, distress and difficulty ^seeking Grod as poor,
condemned, bell-deserving sinners, the scheme of recovei'ing
gr.ice through a Redeemer has been opened to tbeir under-
standings with a surprising beauty and glory, so that they
were enabled to believe in Christ with joy unspeakable and
full of glory    It appeared that most generally the Holy
Spirit improved for this purpose, and made use of some one
particular passage or other of the Holy Scripture, that came
to their remembrance in their distress ;    some gospel-oifer or
promise, or some declaration of Grod directly referring to the
recovery and salvation of undone sinners by the new cove-
nant.    But with some it was otherwise ; they had not any
one particular place of Scripture more than another in their
view at the time. Those who met with such a remarkable
relief, as their account of it was rational and scriptural, so
they appeared to have had at the time the attendants and
fruits of a true faith, particularly humility, love, and an
aifectionate regard to the will and honour of Grod ; much of
their exercise was in self-abasing and self-loathing, and ad-
miring the astonishing condescension and grace of God
towards such vile and despicable creatures, that had been so
full of enmity and disafibction to him.     They freely and
sweetly, with all their hearts, chose the way of his com-
mandments    ;   their inflamed desire   was to   live to   him for
ever, according to his will, and to the glory of his name.
   " There were others that had nbt such remarkable relief
and comfort, who yet I could not but think were savingly
renewed and brought truly to accept of and rest upon Jesus
Christ, though not with such a degree of liveliness and
liberty, strength and joy; and some of those continued for a
considerable time after, for the most part, under a very dis-
tressing suspicion and jealousy of their case.     I was all
along very cautious of expressing to people my judgment of
the goodness of their states, except where I had pretty clear
evidences from them of their being savingly changed; and
yet they continued   in deep distress, c-asting oif all their
evidences.   Sometimes, in such cases, I have thought it
needful to use greater freedom that way than ordinary ; but
otherwise I judged that it could be of little use, and might
caaily be hurtful.
           THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                         181

   "Beside those above spoken of, whose experience of a
work of grace was in a good degree clear and satisfying,
there were some others (tliough but very few in this congre-
gation that I knew of,) who, having very little knowledge
or capacity, had a very obscure and improper way of repre-
senting their case.     In relating how they had been exer-
cised, they would chiefly speak of such things as were only
the effects of their soul exercise upon their bodies from time
to time, and some things that were purely imaginary which
                                                      ;


obliged me to be at much pains in my inquiries before I
could get any just ideas of their case.   I would ask them,
what were the thoughts, the views and apprehensions of
their minds, and exercise of their affections, at such times
when they felt, perhaps, a quivering come over them, or a
faintness, or thought they saw their hearts full of some
nauseous filthiness ; or when they felt a heavy weight or
load at their hearts, or felt the weight again taken off, and
a pleasant warmness rising from their hearts, as they would
probably express themselves, which might be the occasions
or causes of these things they spoke of; and then, when
with some   difficulty I could get them to understand me,
some of them would give a pretty rational account of solemn
and spiritual exercises, and after a thorough careful exami-
nation this way, T could not but conceive good hopes of some
such persons.
   " But there were, moreover, several others who seemed
to think concerning themselves that they were     under some
good work, of whom yet I could have no reasonable ground
to think that they were under any hopeful work of the
Spirit of God.   As near as I could judge of their case from
all my acquaintance and conversation with them, it was
much to this purpose. They believed there was a good
work going on ; that people were convinced, and brought
into a converted state ; and they desired to be converted too.
They saw others weeping and fainting, and heard people
mourning and lamenting, and they thought if they could be
like these it would be very hopeful with them ; hence, they
endeavoured just to get themselves affected by sermons, and
if they could come to weeping, or get their passions so raised
as to incline them to vent themselves by cries, now they
hoped they were got under convictions, and were in a very
hopeful way; and afterwards they would speak of their
      16
182              THE LOG COLLEGE.
being in trouble, and aim at complaining of themselves, but
seemed as if they knew not well how to do it, nor what to
say against themselves.    And then they would be looking
and expecting to get some texts of Scripture applied to them
for their comfort ; and when any Scripture text, which they
thought was suitable for that purpose, came to their minds,
they were in hopes it was brought to them by the Spirit of
God, that they might take comfort from it. And thus,
much in such a way as this, some appeared to be pleasing
themselves with an imaginary conversion of their own
making. I endeavoured to correct and guard against all
such mistakes, so far as I discovered them in the course of
my ministry ; and to open up the nature of a true conviction
by the Spirit of Grod, and of a saving conversion.
   " Thus I have given a very brief account of the state and
progress of religion here, through that first summer after the
remarkable revival of it among us. Towards the end of
that summer, there seemed to be a stop put to the further
progress of the work, as to conviction and awakening of
sinners ; and ever since there have been very few instances
of persons convinced.    It remains, then, that I speak some-
thing of the abiding eflfects and after fruits of those
awakenings and other religious exercises which people were
under during the above mentioned period. Such as were
only under some slight impressions and superficial awaken-
ings, seem in general to have lost them all again without any
abiding hopeful alteration upon them.       They seem to have
fallen back again into their former carelessness and stupidity,
and some that were under pretty great awakenings, and con-
siderably deep convictions of their miserable state, seem
also to have got peace again to their consciences without
getting it by a true faith in the Lord Jesus, aifording no
satisfying evidence of their being savingly renewed.      But,
thi-ough the infinite rich grace of Grod (blessed be his
glorious name !) there is a considerable number who afi'ord
all the evidence that can be reasonably expected and required
for our satisfaction in the case, of their having been the
subjects of a thorough saving change.        Except in some
singular instances of behaviour, which alas   !  proceed from,
and show the sad remains of original corruption even in the
regenerate children of God, while in this imperfect state,
their walk is habitually tender and conscientious, their
             THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                        183

carriage towards their neighbours just and kind, and they
appear to have an agreeable peculiar love one for another,
and for all in whom appears the image of God. Their dis-
courses of religion, their engagedness and dispositions of
soul in the practice of the immediate duties and ordinances
of religion, all appear quite otherwise than formerly.  In-
deed, the liveliness of their affections in the ways of religion
is   much abated in general, and they are in some measure
hmubly sensible of this, and grieved for it, and are carefully
endeavouring still to live unto God, much grieved with their
imperfections and the plagues they find in their own hearts ;
and .Vcquently they meet with some delightful enliven ings
of  soul, and particularly our sacramental solemnities for
comnmnicating in the Lord's supper, have generally been
very blessed seasons of enlivening and enlargement to the
people of God.   Thei-e is a very evident and great increase
of Christian knowledge with many of them.      AVe enjoy in
this congregation the happiness of a great degree of harmony
and concord.  Scarcely any have appeared with open opposi-
tion and bitterness against thework of God among us, and
elsewhere up and down the land ; though there are a pretty
many such in several other places through the country
Bonie indeed in this congregation, but very few have
separated from us and joined with the ministers who have
unhappily opposed this blessed work.
  " It would have been a great advantage to this account,
had I been careful in time to have written down the experi-
ences of particular persons ; but this I neglected in the
proper season.    However, I have more lately noted down
an account of some of the soul exercises and experiences of
one person, which I think may be proper to make public on
this occasion.   The person is a single young woman, but I
judge it proper to conceal her name, because she is yet liv-
ing.    I was very careful to be exact in the affair, both in
my conversing with her, and writing the account she gave
me of herself immediately after. And though I don't pre-
tend to give her very words for the most part, yet I am well
satisfied I don't misrepresent what she related.     The ac-
count then is this she was first brought to some solemn
                    :



thouglitfulness and concern about her soul's case, by seeing
others so much concerned about their souls. AVhen she saw
people in deep distress about the state of their souls, she
184                  THE LOG COLLEGE.
thouglit with    herself,   how unconcenied she was about her
own.       And though she thought that she had not been very
guilty of great sins, yet she feared she was too little con-
cerned about her eternal well-being ; and then the sermona
 she heard made her still uneasy about her case, so that
 she would go homo on the Sabbath evenings pretty much
 troubled and cast down ; which concern used to abide with
 her for a few days after, but still towards the end of the
week she would become pretty easy j and then, by hearing
the word on the Sabbath days, her uneasiness was always
renewed for a few days again. And thus it fared with her,
until one day as she was hearing a sermon preached from
 Heb. iii. 15 : To-day if you will hear his voice harden not
                 '



your hearts.' The minister, in the sermon, spoke to this
         ' How many
effect :              of you have been hearing the gospel for
a long time, and yet your hearts remain always hard, with-
out being made better by it ; the gospel is the voice of
God, but you have heard it only as the voice of man, and
not the voice of God, and so have not been benefited by it.'
These words came with power to her heart. She saw that
this was her very case ; and she had an awful sense of the
sin of her misimprovement of the gospel, of her stupidity,
hardness, and unprofitableness under the hearing of the
word of God.      She saw that she was hereby exposed to
the sin-punishing justice of God, and so was filled with
very great fear and terror ; but she said there was no other
sin at that time applied to her conscience, neither did she
see herself as altogether without Christ.
   *' This
           deep concern, on the fore-mentioned account, stuck
pretty close by her afterwards.   There was a society of pri-
vate Christians to meet in the neighbourhood, some day
after, in the same week, for reading, prayer, and religious
conference.   She had not been at a society of that kind be-
fore, but she longed very much for the time of their meet-
ing then, that she might go there and while she was there
                                     ;


she got an awful view of her sin and corruption, and saw
that she was without Clirist, and without grace ; and her
exercise and distress of soul was such, that it made her for
a while both deaf and blind ; but she said she had the ordi-
nary use of her understanding, and begged that Christ
might not leave her to perish, for she saw that she was un-
done without him. After this she lived in bitterness of
               THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                      185

soul ; and at another time she had such a view of her sin-
fulness, of the holiness and justice of God, and the danger
she was in of eternal misery, as filled her with extreme an-
guish, so that had it not been that she was supported by
an apprehension of God's all-sufficiency, she told me she
was persuaded she should have fallen immediately into de-
spair.   She continued for some weeks in great distress of
spirit, seeking and pleading for mercy without any comfort,
until one Sabbath evening, in ii house where she was lodged,
during the time of a saeramentul solemnity, while the family
were singing the 84th Psalm, her soul conceived strong
hopes of reconciliation with God through Jesus Christ, and
she had such apprehensions of the happiness of the heavenly
state, that her heart vras filled with joy unspeakable and
full of glory.   She sung with such elevation of soul, as if
she had sung out of herself, as she expressed it she thought
                                                  ;


at the time, it was as if the Lord had put by the veil and
showed her the open glory of heaven ; she had very en-
larged views of the sufficiency of Christ to save ; she was
clearly persuaded, to the fullest satisfaction, that there was
merit enough in him to answer for the sins of the most
guilty sinner ; and she saw that God could well be recon-
ciled to all elect sinners in his Son ;   which was a most rav-
ishing, delightful scene of contemplation to her.
  " But while she was in this frame, after some time, she
thought with herself that notwithstanding all this, yet she
could not with the full assurance of faith lay claim to the
Lord Jesus as her own Saviour in particular. She could
not say with such full satisfaction and certainty as she de-
sired, that he would be a Saviour in particular to her; and
hence, for want of thoroughly understanding wherein the
very essence of saving faith consists, she had some jealous
fear that she was not yet brought truly to believe in Christ.
However, she was pretty free from her former terrors after
this sweet interview.    But after some some time, she grew
more disconsolate, and more sensibly afraid of her state, on
the forementioned account.      She heard that sinners iu
closing with Christ by faith, received him for their Saviour,
which she thought included in it a persuasion that he was
theirs in particular, and she could not clearly say that this
had ever been her case ; and so she came awfully to suspect
herself to be as yet an unbeliever ; and though she came in
         16*
186             THE LOG COLLEGE.
time to tliat sweet plerophory, and full assurance of faith,
yet she has since seen her mistake in that matter about the
nature of a true and saving faith. She continued very much
under those grievous dejections for about two years, and yet
enjoyed considerable sweetness and comfort at times.    She
often came to hear sermons with a desire to get clearly con-
vinced of her being yet in a Christless state, and with a
formed resolution to take and apply to herself what might
be said in the sermon to the unconverted but most com-
                                            ;


monly she returned very agreeably disappointed. She would
generally hear some mark of grace, some evidence of a real
Christian laid down, which she could lay claim to, and could
not deny ; and thus she was supported and comforted from
time to time.    During these two years, it was still with
much fear and perplexity that she adventured to commu-
nicate in the Lord's supper, but she could not omit it; and
she always found some refreshing and sweetness by that
ordinance.
  " After she had been    so long   under an almost alternate
succession of troubles and supports, the Sun of Righteous-
ness at last broke out upon her, to the clear satisfaction and
unspeakable ravishment of her soxil, at a communion table.
There her mind was let into the glorious mysteries of re-
demption with great enlargement. While she meditated on
the sufferings of the Lord Jesus, she thought with herself,
be was not merely a man who suffered so for sinners, but
infinitely more than man, even the most high God, the eter-
nal Son, equal with the Father ; and she saw his being God,
put an infinite lustre and value upon his sufferings as man  ;

her heart was filled with a most unutterable admiration of
his person, his merit, and his love; she was enabled to be-
lieve in him vpith a strong self-evidencing faith ; she be-
lieved that he had suffered for her sins ; that she was the
very person who by her sins had occasioned his sufferings,
and brought agony and pain upon him. The consideration
of this filled her with the deepest abhorrence of her sins,
and most bitter grief for them ; she said she could have
desired with all her heart to have melted and dissolved her
body quite away in that very place, in lamentation and
mourning over her sins. After this enjoyment, her soul
•was generally delighting in God, and she had much of the
light of his countenance with her ; and oh   her great con-
                                                !
                THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                      187

ccrn  still was, how she might live to the Lord, how she

might do anything for him, and give honour to him. The
Lord condescended to be much with her by his enlivening
and comforting presence, and especially sacramental seasons
were blessed and precious seasons to her.   At one of those
occasions she was in a sweet frame, meditating on the blood
and water that issued from the wound made by the spear in
her Saviour's side. She thought, as water is of a purifying,
cleansing nature, so there was sanctifying virtue as well as
justifying merit in the Lord Jesus ; and that she could no
more be without the water, his sanctifying grace to cleanse
her very polluted soul, than she could be without his blood
to do away her guilt; and her heart was much taken up
with the beauty and excellency of sanctification.      At an-
other time, a communion solemnity likewise, she was very
full of delight and wonder with the thoughts of electing love ;
how that God had provided and determined so great things
for her before ever she had a being.    And a very memora-
ble enjoyment she had at another time, on Monday after a
communion Sabbath, when these words came to her mind,
'
  The Spirit and the bride say, Come, and let him that is
athirst come, and whosoever will let him take the water of
life freely.'  The glory and delight let in upon her soul by
these words was so great that it quite overcame her bodily
frame.     She said it seemed to her that she was almost all
spirit, and that tl^ body was quite laid by ; and she was
sometimes in hopes that the union would actually break, and
the soul get quite away.    She saw much at that time into
the meaning of her Lord in those words, Because I live ye
                                              '



shall live also.'
    ''
         Ilespectiug a time of sickness she had, concerning which
I inquired of her, she told me she expected pretty much to
die then, and  was very joyful at the near prospect of her
change, and sensibly grieved to find herself recover again,
chiefly because, that while she lived here she was so frail
and sinful, and could do so little for the Lord's honour. I
was with her in the time of that sickness, and indeed, I
scarcely ever saw one appearing to be so fully and sweetly
satisfied under the afflicting luijid of God ; she manifestly
appeared to lie under it with a peaceful serenity and divine
sweetness in her whole soul.    In a word, her whole deport-
ment in the world bespeaks much humility and hcavcnliuesa
of snirit.
188              THE LOG COLLEGE.
  " One of our Christian friends, a man about fifty years of
age, was removed from us by death in the beginning of May
last, of whom I can give some broken imperfect account,
which perhaps may be of some use. His name was Huns
Kirkpatrick ; he was a man of pretty good understanding,
and had been, I believe, a sober professor for many years,
though he had not been very long in America. After the
work of religion began so powerfully amongst us, I found, in
conversation with him, that he believed it to be a good work,
but seemed very unwilling to give up his good opinion of
his own case. He told me of some concern and trouble he had
been in about his soul in his younger years ; but yet the
case looked suspicious that he had got ease in a legal way,
upon an outward form of religion. At another time, being
at his house, and taking up a little book that lay by me on
the table, which I found to be     '
                                    Mr. Mather's Dead Faith
Anatomized, and Self-justiciary Convicted,' he said to me,
that was indeed a strange book as ever he saw, and that
according to that author, it was a great thing indeed to have
a right faith that was true and saving, another thing than
it was generally supposed to be ; or to this purpose.     He
seemed to me at that time to be under more fears about his
own case than I had observed in him before. Not long after
this, as he was hearing a sermon one day, the word was ap-
plied with irresistible evidence and power to his heart, so
that he saw himself as yet in a perislj^ng, undone case
whereupon the distress and exercise of his soul was so great,
that he fell off the seat on which he was sitting, and wept
and cried very bitterly. A little after this he went to Phi-
ladelphia, at the time of the meeting of the Synod, in hopes
that perhaps he might meet with some benefit to his soul by
hearing the ministers preach there, or by conversing with
some of them. He told me afterwards that while he was
there, and as he walked the streets, he was unspeakably dis-
 tressed with the view of his miserable condition, so that he
could hardly keep his distress from being publicly discerned
vipon him and that he seemed sometimes to be even in a
          ;


manner afraid that the streets would open and swallow up
 such a wretched creature.    He told me of his trouble, and
 his very sweet relief out of it, in a most moving manner,
 under a very fresh sense and impression of both ; -but the
particulars of his relief I have quite forgot.
             THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIll.                      189

  " He was afterwards chosen and      set apart for a ruling
elder in the congregation.   He died of an iniposthume, and
gradually wasted away for a long time before his death, and
was for about two mouths entirely confined to his bed. He
told me that for some time before he was laid bedfast, he
had been full of very distressing fears and jealousies about
his soul's state, and was altogether unsatisfied about his
interest in Christ; but that soon after he was confined to his
bed, the Lord afforded him his comforting presence, cleared
up his interest, and removed his fears. After this he con-
tinued still clear and peaceful in his soul, and sweetly and
wholly resigned to the Lord's will until death.      AVhile he
had strength to speak much, he was free and forward to dis-
course of God and divine things.      One time, as two other
of our eldci's were with him, he exhorted them to continue
steadfast and faithful to God's truths and cause, for, he said,
if he had a thousand souls he could freely venture them all
upon the doctrines which had been taught them in this con-
gregation.   One time when I took leave of him he burst out
into tears, saying, 'I had been the messenger of the Lord of
hosts to him, that the Lord had sent to call him out of the
broad way of destruction.' For some days before his decease
he could speak but very little, but to all appearance, with a
great deal of serenity and sweetness of soul, he fell asleep in
Jesus.
   " There have been very comfortable instances of little
children among us. Two sisters, the one being about seven,
the other about nine years of age, were hopefully converted
that summer, when religion was so much revived here. I dis-
coursed with them both very latcl}^, and from their own
account, and the account of their parents, there appears to
have been a lasting and thorough change wrought in them.
They speak of their soul expcj'icnces with a very becoming
gravity, and apparent impression of the things they speak of.
   '' The youngest was awakened by hearing the word
preached ; she told me she heard in sermons that except
persons were convinced and converted, they would surely go
to hell and she knew she was not converted.
         ;                                      This set her
to praying with great earnestness, with tears and cries ; yet
her fears and distress continued for several days, until one
time as she was praying, her heart, she said, was drawn out
iu great love to God ; and as she thought of heaven, and
190              THE LOG COLLEaE.
being with God, she was filled with sweetness and delight.
I could not find by her that she had at that time any explicit
particular thoughts about Christ as a Redeemer, but she
suid she knew then that Christ had died for sinners.      She
told me she often found such delight and love to God since,
as she did then, and at such times she was very willing to
die that she might be with God; but she said she was some-
times afraid yet of going to hell.   I asked her, If she was
                                                  '



troubled at any time when she was not afraid of going to
hell ?'  She said ' yes.' I asked her * what she was troubled
                                                             ;'
for, then ?' she said,  ' because she had done ill to God
meaning that she had done evil, and sinned against God.
Some time after she first found comfort, one night when her
father and all the rest of the family, but her mother and
herself, were gone to a private society, she said to her
mother, * that the people were singing and praying where
her father was gone,' and desired her mother to do the same
with her ; aud after they were gone to bed, ' she desired her
mother to sing some psalms which she had by heart,' for
she said she did not want to go to sleep.
   " Her sister was brought into trouble about her soul, that
same summer, by sickness. It continued with her some
time after her recovery ; until one day, coming home from
meeting, as she heard some people speaking about Christ
and heaven, her heart was inflamed with love to Christ.
She says, that when she has Christ's presence with her,
                  '



she does not know what to do to get away and be with God.'
Their parents told me, that for a long time they, seemed to
be almost wholly taken up in religion ; that no weather,
through the extremity of winter, would hinder them from
going out daily to by-places for secret prayer ; and if any-
thing came in the way that they could not get out for
prayer, at such times as they inclined and thought most
proper, they would weep and cry.     Their parents say they
are very obedient children, and strict observers of the Sab-
bath.
   " There are likewise other young ones in the place, of
whom I know nothing to the contrary, but that they con-
tinue hopeful and religious to this day.
  ''   This blessed shower of divine influences spread very
much through      this province that summer; and was like-
           THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                           191

wise considerable in some other places bordering upon it.
The accounts of some ministers being something distin-
guished by their searching, awakening doctrine, and solemn,
pathetic manner of address, and the news of the effects of
their preaching upon their hearers, seemed in some mea-
sure to awaken people through the country to consider
their careless and formal way of going on in religion, and
very much excited their desires to hear "those ministers.
There were several vacant congregations without any set-
tled pastors, which earnestly begged for their visits; and
several ministers who did not appear heartily to put their
shoulder to help in carrying on the same work, yet then
yielded to the pressing importunities of their people, in in-
viting those brethi-en to preach in their pulpits; so that
they were very much called abroad, and employed in inces-
sant labours, and the Lord wrought with them mightily.
Very great assemblies would ordinarily meet to hear them,
on any day of the week ; and, oftentimes, a surprising
power accompanying their preaching, was visible among the
multitudes of their hearers.    It was a very comfortable, en-
livening time to Grod's people ; and great numbers of secure,
careless professors, and many loose, irreligious persons,
through the land, were deeply convinced of their miserable,
perishing estates; and there is abundant reason to believe
and be satisfied, that many of them were, in the issue, sav-
ingly converted to God.      I, myself, have had occasion to
 converse with a great many up and down, who have given
 a most agreeable account of very precious and clear experi-
 ences of the grace of God.     Several, even in Baltimore, a
 county in the province of Maryland, who were brought up
 almost in a state of heathenism, without almost any know-
 ledge of the true doctrines of Christianity, afford very
 satisfying evidences of being brought to a saving acquaint-
 ance with God in Christ Jesus.
   " Thus, sir, I have endeavoured to give a brief account
of the revival of religion among us in these parts ; in
which I have endeavoured, all along, to be conscientiously
exact in relating things according to the naked truth
knowing that I must not speak wickedly, even for God, nor
talk deceitfully for him.

   "And, upon     the whole, I must say      it   is   beyond   all
192                THE LOG COLLEGE.
dispute with me, and I think it is beyond all reasonable
contradiction, that God has carried on a great and glorious
work of his grace among us.
       " I am, Rev. sir,
            " Your very respectful son and servant,
                                       "Samuel Blair.
   " Rev. Sir :-*-Having an opportunity of obtaining these
attestations before sending  my letter to you, I send them
also along ; if you please they may be inserted in the Chris-
tian History at the end of my account.               S. B.

                "New Londonderry, August 7th, 1744.
   " We the subscribers, ruling elders in the congregation
of New Londonderry, do give our testimony and attestation
to the above account of the revival of religion in this con-
gregation and other parts of this country, so far as the said
account relates to things that were open to public observa-
tion, and such thing as we have had opportunity of being
acquainted with.    Particularly, we testify, that there has
been a great and very general awakening among the people,
whereby they have been stirred up to an earnest uncommon
concern and diligence about their eternal salvation, accord-
ing to the above account of it; and that many give very
comfortable evidence by their knowledge, declaration of ex-
perience, and conscientious practice, of their being savingly
changed and turned to Grod.
       James Cochran,               John Smith,
       John Ramsay,                 John Simson,
       John Love,                   Wm. Boyd."

   Mr. Samuel Blair was truly a burning and a shining
light ; but like   many others of this description, while
he warmed and enlightened others, he himself was con-
sumed.    Though his life was protracted beyond the
age attained by Davies and Brainerd, yet he may
be said to have died young, for from the inscription on
his tomb it appears that he was only thirty-nine years
and twenty-one days old w*hen he was taken away.
His remains lie in the burying ground of Fagg's
Manor, where his tomb may yet be seen. The whole
inscription is
                THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                       193

                      " Hero lieth the body of
                  The Rev. Samuel        Bi.aib,
                       "Who departed this life,
                     The 5th day of .July, 1751.
                   Aged 39 years and 21 days."
          " In yonder sacred house I spent my breath.
           Now silent, mouldering, here I lie in death   ;

           These lips shall wake again and yet declare
           A dread amen to truths they published there."
   Mr. Blair was one of the most learned and profound,
as well as pious, excellent, and venerable men of his
day.   His deep and clear views as a theologian, are
suiHciently evident from his treatise on " Predestina-
tion,'' where this awful and mysterious doctrine is
treated with the hand of a master.
   As a preacher, Mr. Blair was very eminent. There
was a solemnity in his very appearance, which struck
his hearers with awe before he opened his mouth. And
his manner of preaching, while it was truly evangelical
and instructive, was exceedingly impressive. He spoke
as in the vieAV of eternity, as in the immediate pres-
ence of God.      The opinion which Mr. Davics en-
tertained of Mr. Blair as a preacher, may be learned
from an anecdote received from Dr. Rodgers, by the
late Rev. Dr. S. Miller        " When the Rev. Samuel
                                :


Davies returned from Europe, his friends were curious
to learn his opinion of the celebrated preachers whom
he had heard in England and Scotland. After deahng
out liberal commendations on such as he had most ad-
mired, he concluded by saying that he had heard no
one who, in his judgment, was superior to his former
teacher, the Rev. Samuel Blair."
   Mr. Blair was intimately associated with Mr. Gil-
bert Tennent in all his controversies Avith the Synod
of Philadelphia.    He concurred in all the proceedings
of the New Brunswick Presbytery, in which they acted
in opposition to the rule of the Synod, requiring can-
didates to be examined by a committee of their appoint-
ment, and in preaching within the bounds of settled
congregations, where the people requested it. He also
           17
194             THE LOG COLLEGE.
 united with Mr. Tennent in presenting to the Synod
 complaints against the members of that body, by which
 proceedings the minds of the majority of the Synod
 were so exasperated that they introduced a solemn
 protest against the New Brunswick brethren, Avhich
 led to an immediate separation of the parties, a schism
 which continued seventeen years before it could be
 healed, as has been already related.    To ascertain, at
 this time, which of the parties were most to blame in
 these unhappy controversies and divisions, is not easy.
 Faults undoubtedly there were on both sides.        The
 Old Side were much to blame in setting themselves in
 opposition to the revival of religion which had so glo-
 riously commenced.      By doing so, they incurred a
 fearful responsibility.  That Tennent and Blair trans-
 gressed the rules of order cannot be denied.       They
 disobeyed the Synod, and entered into the congrega-
tions of their brethren without their consent. Whether
in these things they were excusable, will depend upon
the true state of the churches at that time.    Our Sa-
viour and his apostles disregarded the orders of the
priests and of the synagogue.       And Luther and the
other reformers did not feel themselves bound by the
authority of the popish magistracy and priesthood.
Every minister holds a commission to preach the gos-
pel to every creature to whom he can gain access, and
if a certain number of people, who are anxious to hear
the gospel, happen by human arrangements to be cir-
cumscribed within the limits of a parish over which
another has charge and if this nominal pastor is be-
                    ;


lieved not so to preach the gospel as to lead the people
in the way of salvation, why may not the faithful
preacher disregard these human arrangements intended
to promote order, and carry the gospel to those who
are thirsting for the word of life ?  No doubt the prin-
ciple is liable to great abuse, and may occasion great
disorder, :ind result in much more evil than good. The
question in regard to these devoted men is, Avhether
the people in the congregations of their opponents
            THE REV. SAMUEL BLAIR.                  195

were really in such a perishing condition as would
authorize  them to overleap the fence, which, for the
sake of order, had heen set up.   And this is the point
which, in my oj)inion, we arc incapable of deciding.
Men may continue to maintain in theory an orthodox
creed, and yet may manifest such deadly hostility to
vital piety that they must be considered the enemies
of the cause of God and the work of the Spirit.   That
the opposers of the revival, at that time, did exhibit
such a character cannot be asserted universally, for
some of them appear to have been in the main sincere
Christians, and only meant to set themselves in oppo-
sition to those opinions and practices connected with
the revival, which were reprehensible.
   But that many of those of the Old Side manifested
a malignity of spirit against the revival, Avhich was
wicked in the extreme, I entertain no doubt. I have
heard so much from aged persons who were living in
the midst of the revival ;   and even the subjects of it
have given me such accounts of the malign spirit with
which the whole work was ridiculed and opposed by
many, that I cannot doubt, that, in a good degree, the
contest between the parties, was between the friends
and the enemies of true religion. And somcthinf: of
the same spirit of hostility to revivals was handed down
to our own times.   I have known men of hi<rh staudin<r
in the church, and undoubted learning, who derided
every account of revivals, and sudden conversions, as
fanatical and foolish. It is, therefore, my deliberate
opinion, that in the general, the Tenncnts and Blairs,
and their coadjutors, were men approved of God, and
greatly honoured as the instruments of winning many
souls to Christ, while their opponents were for the
most part, unfriendly to vital piety.
   But while I consider the ministers of the New-
Brunswick Presbytery, and their coadjutors, as the real
friends and successful promoters of true religion in
this land, I do not mean to exonerate them from all
blame.   They were men, and liable to human imper-
196           THE LOG COLLEGE.
fections. Some of them were men of ardent tempera-
ment, and somewhat overbearing disposition; and
under the influence of a fervid zeal, they did and said
many unadvised things. When the state of the church
became more settled, and the warmth of their feelings
had subsided, they themselves vicAved matters in a very
diftereut light from what they had done in the heat of,
the controversy.
                       CHAPTER XV.

                     THE REV. JOHN BLAIR.


           —              —                           —
Education First settlement Driven away by the Indians Is called to
                 —                   —
  Fagg's Manor Continues the school Elected Professor of Theology
  in Nassau Hall —                                        —
                  Resigns on the arrival of Dr. Witherspoon Removes
                        —
  to Orange County, N. Y.        —
                           His end The family of the Blairs.


   The Rev. John Blair was a yoitnger brother of
the person whose memoir is given in the preceding
chapter. He was also an alumnus of the Log College,
and as a theologian was not inferior to any man in the
Presbyterian church in his day.      He was first settled
in Pennsylvania, at Big Spring (now Newville) in the
Cumberland Valley, in the vicinity of Carlisle. But
by reason of the hostile incursion of the Indians, his
people were obliged to leave their rude habitations on
the frontier, and to retreat into the more densely popu-
lated part of the colony.     Mr. Blair, it would seem,
never returneil to the place whence he had been driven
by the invasion of the savages, but upon the decease
of his brother Samuel, he received antl accepted a call
to be his successor, at Fagg's Manor; and that not
only as pastor of the church, but also as the teacher
of the school which his brother had instituted in that
place. In this important station he continued for nine
years and though not ecjual to his brother as an im-
       ;


pressive preacher, as a scholar and as a theologian he
was not inferior.
  New Jersey College having been founded for the
very purpose of giving a complete education to candi-
dates for the ministry, these academies, which had
done so much for the church, no longer had the same
           17*                                        (197)
198                  THE LOG COLLEGE.
importance as Avhen no sucli institution existetl. Ac-
cordingly, not only did the Log College, at Nesliaminy,
which was the mother institution, cease as soon as the
college was erected, but the celebrated school at Not-
tingham was not continued after Dr. Finlcy Avas chosen
president of Nassau Ilall. And when Dr. Finley died,
a sum of money having been left for the support of a
professo]? of divinity,       Mr. John Blair was elected pro-
fessor of theology in the College of New Jersey. This
invitation he accepted, and removed to Princeton. He
was also appointed vice president of the college, and
until the arrival of Dr. Witherspoon performed all
the duties of president.
   The funds of the college not being adequate to sup-
port a professor of theology distinct from the president,
and it being known that Dr. Witherspoon was an or-
thodox and eminent theologian, who could consistently
with his other duties teach theology, Mr. Blair judged
it would be expedient for him to resign.      Upon this
he received a call to settle as pastor of a Presbyterian
congregation in Wallkill, Orange county. New York.
Here he continued to labour in the duties of the min-
istry until he was called away from the field by death,
which occurred Dec. S, 1771, in his 52d year.*
   The character of Mr. John Blair is thus drawn, by
a writer of a sketch of his life in the Assembly's
Magazine:"
  " John Blair, an eminent minister of Pennsylvania, was
ordained to the pastoral charge of three congregations iu
Cumberland county, as early as 1742. These were frontier

  * The following is the inscription on his tomb-stone
  "Hero lie interred the remains of the Rev. Mr. Jolui Blair, A. ]M,,\Yho
departed this life December G, 1771, in the 52d yeiir of liis age.
   " He was a gentleman ef a masterly genius. A good seholar, an excellent
divine.   A very judicions, instructive, nud solemn preacher. A laborious
and successful minister of Christ. An eminent Christian. A man of great
         —
prudence and a briglit example of every social virtue.
   " He was some time Vice President of Nassau Hall, and Professor of Di-
vinity in the Colk'gc of New Jersey, which places he filled with fidelity
and roimtation. lie lived greatly beloved, and died uui verbally lamented.''
                  THE HEV. JOHN BLAIR,                    199

Bcttlcmonts und exposed to the depredation of the Indians,
with whom a state of war then existed, and ho was obliged
to remove.     He accepted a call from Fagg's Manor in
1757. The congregation had been favoured with the
ministry of his brother, Samuel Blair.      And here he con-
tinued about nine years ; and besides discharging the duties
of the ministry, he superintended also a flourishing gram-
mar-school, and prepared many young men for the ministry.
When the presidency of New Jersey College became vacant,
by the death of Dr. Finley, he was chosen professor of
divinity, and had for some time the charge of that seminary
before the arrival of Dr. Witherspoon.
    *'
       He was a judicious and persuasive preacher, and through
his exertions .sinners were converted, and the children of
God edified. Fully convinced of the truth of the doctrines
of grace, he addressed immortal souls with that warmth and
 power which left a witness in every bosom. Though he
 sometimes wrote his sermons in full, yet his common mode
 of preaching 'was by short notes, comprising the general
 outlines.   His labours were too abundant to admit of more
 and no more was necessary to a mind so richly stored with
 the great truths of religion.       For his large family he
 amassed no fortune, but he left them what was infinitely
 better, a religious education, a holy example, and prayers
 which have been remarkably answered. His disposition
was uncommonly patient, placid, benevolent, disinterested,
and cheerful. He was too mild to indulge bitterness or
severity ; and he thought that the truth required little else
but to be fairly stated and properly understood. Those who
could not relish the savour of his piety, loved him as an
amiable, and revered him as a great man.         Though no
bigot, he firmly believed that the Presbyterian form of
government is most Scriptural, and the most favourable to
religion and happiness.
   " In his last sickness, he imparted his advice to the con-
gregation, and represented to his family the necessity of an
interest in Christ.      A  few nights before he died^ he said,
 '   Directly I   am                 —
                       going to glory my Master calls me, I
must be gone.' "
   Mr. John Blair left behind him a treatise on Re-
generation, which is ably written and entirely ortho-
dox.   He also published a treatise on the Scriptural
200             THE LOG COLLEGE.
terms of admission to the Lord's Supper, in which he
maintains that ministers and church officers have no
more authority to debar from the Lord's table those
who desire to attend, than from any other duty of
God's worship.   This piece the late Rev. J. P. Wilson,
D. D., pastor of the first Presbyterian church, Phila-
delphia, had republished in a small selection of treatises
on the Lord's Supper from which it may be inferred,
                       ;


that he approved the sentiments Avhich it contains.
.  It is always gratifying to a laudable curiosity to
learn something respecting the families and descendants
of men once eminent in the church, although in the
pursuit of this knowledge we often meet with mortify-
ing instances of a sad degeneracy.       But when it is
otherwise, it is always pleasing to the pious mind to be
able to trace eminent piety and talents descending from
generation to generation. Two of the sisters of Samuel
and John Blair were married to distinguished ministers
of the Presbyterian church the one to the Rev. John
                             ;


Carmichacl, pastor of the church at the Forks of Bran-
dywine, who was also an eminent patriot in the strug-
gle of this country for independence.     The other was
married to the Rev. Robert Smith, D. D., of Pequea,
the father of three ministers who were eminent in the
Presbyterian church, and two of them distinguished
presidents of literary institutions. .The Rev. Doctor
Samuel S. Smith was the first president of Hampden
Sidney College in Virginia, and then the immediate
successor of Dr. Witherspoon as president of New
Jersey College. The other, the Rev. John B. Smith,
D. D., succeeded his brother as president of Hamp-
den Sidney, and w^as afterwards the first president
of Union College in Schenectady.        He was an elo-
quent, evangelical, and successful minister. Under his
ministry in A'^irginia commenced a powerful and ex-
tensive revival, the influence of which extended far and
wide througli that state, and also to North Carolina
and Kentucky. Mr. William Smith, the third son, was
a pious, judicious minister, less distinguished than
               THE REV. JOHN BLAIR                    201

either of his brothers ; but his good okl father was wont
to say, that though William was inferior to his brothers
in learning and eloquence, yet to comfort and edify the
plain Christian, he was equal to cither of them. The
Kev. Samuel Blair, of Fagg's Manor, had a son of the
same name, who Avas considered the most accomplished
and promising young minister in the Presbyterian
church. He, at an early age, received a call to be col-
league with the Rev. Mr. Sewall, in the old South
church, Boston.     Before he was licensed, he had for
some time acted as a tutor in his alma mater. The
estimation in which he was held by the trustees of the
college may be learned from the fact, that after Dr.
Witherspoon had declined the first invitation of the
board, young Mr. Blair was elected president, before
he was thirty years of age. But soon after his elec-
tion, intelligence was received from Scotland, that if
the call were repeated. Dr. Witherspoon would, in all
probability accept the invitation.   As soon as this was
known to Mr. Blair, he immediately wrote to the presi-
dent of the board, declining the office.    This prompt
and generous decision freed the trustees from all the
embarrassment in which otherwise they might have
been involved.     Of course, the election of Mr. Blair
could not have been known to Dr. Witherspoon, when
he signified his willingness to accept the appointment
and when he understood from what motives INIr. Blair
had declined the office, he was much aft'ectcd with the
disinterestedness of the young man, and often spoke of
it   with admiration.
     But thouffh the mornin'ii; of Mr. Blair's life was so
bright,   and promised so much to the church, the san-
guine hopes of his friends were far from being realized
in his future usefulness.    By being shipwrecked on
his way to Boston, he was much exposed, and to this
was attributed the decline of his health and spirits.
He also lost at this time the whole of his manuscript
sermons, a loss which could not be suddenly repaired,
and which ali'ected his spirits not a little. He there-
202            THE LOG COLLEGE.
fore did not remain long in Boston, but returned to
Pennsylvania, where he resided at the house of his
father-in-law, Dr. Shippen, in Germantown, and was
very little engaged in the duties of his office after-
wards, although his life was protracted to a good old
age.                                             .


                     _


   The writer, having spent several summers in German-
town before Dr. Blair's decease, had the opportunity
of becoming well acquainted with him, and found him
to be a man of great refinement of mind, mild and
amiable in disposition, and friendly to evangelical doc-
trine and practical piety.
   Fi-om the history of this popular young man it may
be infei'red, that too much applause is a dangerous
thing to a young minister.       Another remark which
may be made is, that for a young man to form a con-
nection by marriage with a rich and fashionable family,
seldom works well for his usefulness in the ministry,
especially if his partner is of a gay and worldly dis-
position.   And lastly, that speculation on deep points
of theology, when the mind is not under a decided
spiritual influence, is always attended with evil even to
those who at bottom are sincerely pious.
   One of the daughters of Samuel Blair, sen., was
married to a young minister from Virginia, the Rev.
David Rice, and became the mother of a numerous
progeny, who are now scattered through Virginia and
Kentucky, to which last mentioned place Mr. Rice re-
moved, and on the rising population of which his evan-
gelical labours and holy example left a lasting impres-
sion.
   Mr. John Blair also had a son educated at Prince-
ton, NcAv Jersey, who became a minister of the gospel.
He graduated in the year 1775, soon after which he
went to the county of Hanover, in Virginia, and be-
came the principal of an academy, which had been
established by tlic Rev. Daniel McCalla.     While in
this office ho applied himself to the study of theology,
without any instructor, and having passed the usual
                 THE REV. JOHN BLAIR.              203

trials, to the   approbation of the Presbytery of Hano-
ver, he was licensed to preach the gospel.  The acad-
emy not prospering according to his wishes, Mr. Blair
removed from Hanover to the city of Richmond, where
he taught a classical school at his own house, and
preached alternately at Hanover meeting-house, and
in the capitol in Richmond.   At this time there was
no Presbyterian church in Richmond but before Mr.
                                       ;



Blair's death, and after Dr. Rice had collected a con-
gregation and erected a church in the lower part of
the city, Mr. Blair's hearers made an exertion, and
built a handsome church on Shockoe Hill.     He was a
sensible, pleasant man, and much respected by all the
leading characters in the city of Richmond     ; but he
possessed a moderate degree of religious zeal, and no
considerable fruits attended his ministry, as far as has
come to our knowledge.
   Another son of the Rev. John Blair, also educated
at Princeton, went to Kentucky, where it is under-
stood that he was a respectable lawyer.     He was the
father of Mr. Blair, the well known editor of a leading
political paper in Washington city.
                        CHAPTER XVI.

              THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY, D. D.


Birth in Ireland   —                         —
                 Emigration to America Education at the Log Col-
  lege   —                            —                        —
        Becomes a popular Preacher A successful Itinerant^ Settles at
                          —                                —
  Nottingham, Maryland Institutes a Classical School Eminent as a
          —
  Teacher Distinguished Scholars— Elected President of New Jersey
  College — Continues  in this
                             station  fiveyears — Seized with a Liver Com-
  plaint— Goes   toPhiladelphia  to consult Physicians — Dies there in the
  triumphs of Faith — Burial-— Writings.


   Dr. Finley was born in the county of Armagh, in
the province of Ulster, Ireland, in the year 1715, and
was one of seven sons, who were all esteemed pious.
One of his brothers, the Rev. James Finley, was an
esteemed minister in the Presbyterian church and al-          ;


though his talents were very inferior to those of his
brother Samuel, yet he was reckoned to be eminently
pious, and continued laboriously to preach the gospel
until an advanced period of life.   Ilis latter years he
spent in the western part of Pennsylvania, where he
died some years before the close of the last century.
The writer remem])crs to have seen him at a meeting
of the Virginia Synod, in Lexington, in the year 1789.
He was one of the pioneers who, amidst many hard-
ships and privations, carried the gospel to the settlers
in the country round about Pittsburgh; and was the
companion and coadjutor of such men as McMillan,
Joseph Smith, Power, Patterson, Dod, Dunlap, &c.
   The parents of Dr. Finley were of Scotch descent,
and were distinguished for their piety. Finding their
son to be of quick capacity, and fond of learning,
they resolved to give him the best education which
         (204)
            THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.                205

their circumstances would admit; and after lie had
obtained the rudiments of an English education, he
was sent abroad some distance from home to prose-
cute his studies. In this school he distinguished
himself by his assiduity and his    proficiency in
learning.
  When he was in his nineteenth year, he emigrated
fromhis native country, and came to America.   He
arrived in Philadelphia on the 28th of September, in
the year 1734.   He appears to have become a subject
of (livine grace at a very early age.   He has been
heard to say, that when only six years old he heard a
sermon which made a deep impression on his mind,
the text of which he never forgot.  From that day he
was seized with an ardent desire to become a minister
of the gospel.     As he grcAV up, this desire continued
to ripen    and increase; so that his purpose was early
formed to devote his life to the service of God. Upon
his coming to America, he steadily pursued his studies
with a view to the holy ministry.     As he arrived in
Philadelphia at the very time when Mr. Tennent's
school was flourishing at Neshaminy, and as there was
then no other institution in the Presbyterian church
where young men were trained for the ministry, there
is the strongest probability that he was a student at

the Log College.    This probability is strengthened by
the fact, that he put himself under the care of the
New Brunsmck Presbytery, most of the members of
which were educated in this school. His license took
place on the 5th of August, in the year 1740. Having
received authority to preach, he itinerated extensively
and as his pulpit talents were of a high order of excel-
lence, he was greatly instrumental in carrying on the
work of the Lord, Avhicli at that time prevailed in al-
most every part of the latid.
    His labours in the gospel were greatly blessed in
 AVest Jersey  — in  Deerfield, Greenwich, and Cape
 May. He preached also for six months, with great
 acceptance, in the congregation to which Gilbert Ten-
      18
206               THE LOG COLLEGE.
nent was afterwards           called in Philadelphia. His
ordination took       place    on the 13th of October, in
the year 1742.         He     was probably ordained as an
evangelist, and continued to visit the places destitute
of the stated means of grace for several years; and all
accounts agree in ascribing much success to his itin-
erant labours.    It was, probably, during this period
that he made a preaching excursion into Connecticut.
But so rigid were the laws of this land of steady
habits, that Mr. Finley, for preaching in a congrega-
tion in New Haven, was seized as a vagrant by the
civil authority, and carried beyond the limits of the
colony. He does not appear to have been permanently
settled as a pastor until June, 1744, when he accepted
a call from Nottingham, Maryland. In this place he
remained for seventeen years.*
   In this place he instituted an academy, with the
view, chiefly, of preparing young men for the gospel
ministry.   This school was conducted with admirable
wisdom and success, and acquired a higher reputation
than any other in the middle colonies, so that students
from a distance were attracted to it. Some of the
most distinguished men in our country laid the founda-
tion of their eminence and usefulness in this academy.
At one time, there was a cluster of such young men,
who all were afterwards distinguished, and some of
them among the very first men in the country, as the
following names well show     Governor Martin, of North
                                :


Carolina; Dr. Benjamin Rush, of Philadelphia, and
his brother, Jacob Rush, an eminent and pious judge ;
Ebenezer Hazard, Es(i., of Philadelphia Rev. James  ;


Waddel, D. D., of Virginia Rev. Dr. McWhorter,
                                       ;


of Newark, N. J.    Col. John Bayard, speaker of the
                       ;


House of Representatives Governor Henry, of Mary-
                                 ;


land, and the Rev. William M. Tennent, of Abington,
Pa. It would not be easy, in any country, to find
such a constellation in one school, at the same time.
  * In Allen's American Biography, his continuance here is made to bo
only seven years; but he went there in 1744, and removed in 1761.
          THE REV. SAMUEL              FI N L EY      207

That Dr. Finlcy was au accomplished schohir, and a
skilful  teacher, was universally admitted.       Perhaps
this country has not had better classical scholars formed
any where, than in this school. The metliod of in-
struction in the Latin and Greek languages, was
thorough and accurate. The scholars were carefully
drilled in the application of the rules of syntax, and in
tlic prosody of these languages.     Dr. Finley boarded
most of his pupils in his own house, and when they
were met at meals, he was in the habit of relaxing from
the severity of the pedagogue, and indulging in face-
tious remarks   ;  saying, that nothing more helped
digestion than a hearty laugh.     His own temper was
remarkably benignant and sweet, and his manners
affable and polite.
    Dr. Finley had been seriously thought of before Mr.
Davies was called to the presidency of Nassau Hall, and
when Mr. Davies at first declined the invitation, he
strongly recommended Dr. Finley.        It cannot be de-
nied, that both in scholarship, and skill in teaching, the
latter was far superior.    Dr. Finley too, was a much
older man, and had been several years longer in the
ministry.    But Davies was a man of much more
genius and eloquence, and his acquaintance with Eng-
lish literature was far more perfect.
   The premature decease of       so   many presidents   of
New Jersey College brought forward a succession of
illustrious men who have ever since reflected honour on
that literary institution.   Dickinson, Burr, Edwards,
Davies, and Finley, all filled the presidential chair
within five or six years.  Dr. Finley Avas elected presi-
dent in the year 17G1, and immediately entered on the
duties of the office, and the trustees were not disap-
pointed in their expectations of his wisdom and efficiency.
As he was permitted to remain five years in office, he
had the opportunity of carrying into effect plans for
the improvement of the institution, so that its reputa-
tion was greatly extended.    Dr. Finley held corres-
pondence with some of the learned men of Europe,
208            THE LOG COLLEGE.
among wliom was Dr. Samuel Chandler, of London,
who, as appears by his letters, entertained a high es-
teem, and indeed affectionate friendship for his distant
correspondent.    It was through the influence of tliis
learned dissenter, that without the knowledge of Mr.
Finley, the degree of doctor of divinity was bestowed
upon him by the University of Glasgow, which seems
to have been the first instance of any Presbyterian
minister in America receiving that honorary distinc-
tion.   But if genius and theological learning could
have commanded it, Dickinson, Burr, Edwards, and
Davies, would all have been distinguished in the same
way. But they need no such appendage to their
names their works have secured to them a much
       ;


higher honour in the estimation of posterity.     And it
must be a mortification to many modest men who bear
the title of doctor, that divines to whom they are con-
scious that they are not fit to be compared, lived and
died without having their names distinguished by any
such title.   The disease by which Dr. Finley's consti-
tution was attacked, an obstruction of the liver, was
supposed to have been contracted by too great as-
siduity in his studies, and too constant occupation in
the public duties of his office. He did not die at home,
but in the city of Philadelphia, whither he had gone to
consult physicians respecting his disease.    When in-
formed by the physician who attended him, that no-
thing could be done to remove his malady, and that it
must soon prove mortal, he expressed an entire resig-
nation to the divine will, and from that time was en-
gaged in setting his house in order. lie said, " If
my work is done, I am ready I do not desire to live a
                              ;


day longer than I can work for God." At that time,
however, he did not apprehend that his end was so near
as it proved to be.  His disease made rapid progress
and he was informed by one of his physicians that he
had but a few days to live, on which, lifting up his eyes
to heaven, he exclaimed, " Then, welcome, Lord Jesus."
   On the Sabbath preceding his death, he was in-
            THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.                  209

formed by Dr. Clarkson, his brothcv-in-laAV, that he
perceived a manifest alteration in his appearance, and
that evidently his end was near.     " Then," said he,
" may the Lord bring me near himself       I have been
                                             !



Avaiting Avith a Canaan hunger for the promised land.
I   have often wondered that God suffered     me to live.
I have more wondered that he ever called       me to be a
minister of his Avord.     He has often afforded me much
strength, Avhich, though I have often abused, he re-
turned in mercy.      Oh faithful are the promises of
                           !



God   !    that I could see him as I have seen him in
the sanctuary   !  Although I have earnestly desired
death, as the hireling pants for the evening shade, yet
will I wait all the days of my appointed time.   I have
often struggled with principalities and powers, and
                                         —
have been brought almost to despair Lord, let it suf-
fice !"  Here he sat up, and closing his eyes, he
prayed fervently that God would show him his glory
before he should depart hence    —  that he would enable
him to endure patiently to the end, and particularly,
that he might be kept from dishonouring the ministry.
He then resumed his discourse, and spoke as follows,
" I can truly say, I have loved the service of God.     I
know not in Avhat language to speak of my own un-
worthiness I have been undutiful
            ;                            ;I have honestly
endeavoured to act for God, but with much weakness
and corruption." He then lay down, but continued
to speak in broken sentences.      "A Christian's death,"
said he, " is the best part of his experience.  The Lord
has made provision for the whole Avay ; provision for the
soul and for the body.   0, that I could recollect Sab-
bath blessings  ! The Lord has given me many souls
as crowns of my rejoicing.    Blessed be God, eternal
rest is at hand.  Eternity is but long enough to enjoy
my God. This has animated me in my secret studies.
I Avas ashamed to take rest here.   0, that I could be
filled Avith the fulnessof God   that fulness which fills
                                 !



heaven."    Being asked Avhether he "would choose to
live or die, he replied, "to die     —
                                  though I cannot but
          18*
210                        THE LOa COLLEGE.
say, I feel the same strait that Paul did, that he knew
not which to choose,           '
                                   for to   me to live is Christ, but
to die   is       gain.'    But should God, by a        miracle, pro-
long my life, I would still continue to serve him.     His
service has ever been sweet to me.      I have loved it
much. I have tried my Master's yoke, and will never
shrink my neck from it.     '
                              His yoke is easy and his
burden light.' " One said to him, " You are more
cheerful and vigorous, sir."   " Yes.    I rise or fall as
eternal life seems nearer, or further off."   It being re-
marked, that he always used the expression, " dear
Lord," in his prayers, he answered, " 0, he is very
      —
dear very precious, indeed.      How pretty is it for a
minister to die on the Sabbath               —
                                   I expect to spend the
remainder of this Sabbath in heaven." One of the
company said, " You will soon be joined to the blessed
society of heaven ; you will for ever hold intercourse
with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and with the spirits
of the just made perfect             —
                             with old friends, and many
                          " Yes, sir,'' he replied with a
old fashioned people."
smile, " but they are a most polite people now."        He
expressed great gratitude to friends around him, and
said, " May the Lord repay you                   —
                                      may he bless you
abundantly, not only with temporal, but with spiritual
blessings !"   Turning to his wife, he said, " I expect,
my dear, to see you shortly in glory."* Dr. Fiiiley
seeing a member of the Second Presbyterian church
present, said, " I have often preached and prayed
among you, my dear sir, and the doctrines I preached
to you are now my support, and blessed be God they
are without a flaw.   May the Lord bless and prosper
your church. He designs good for it yet, I trust."
   To a person from Princeton, he said, " Give my
   * This hopo, however, was not realized, for Mrs. Fiuloy continued to
live many years after her  husband's decease. She was a long time com-
pletely blind but under this privation, manifested a pious and contented
                  ;


disposition  being entirely resigned to the will of her Heavenly Father.
              ;


It was an edifying and refreshing thing for any person to pay a visit to
her and her companion, Mrs. Hodge, with whom she lived. Their con-
versation "was iudcod in heaven.
                THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.               211

love to the people of Princeton,     and tell them that
I am going to die, and that I    am not afraid to die."
He would sometimes cry out, " The Lord Jesus will
take care of his cause in this world !"   Upon awaking
the next morning, he exclaimed, " Oh what a disap-
                            —
pointment I have met with I expected this morning
to have been in heaven!"        On account of extreme
weakness, he was unable to speak much during this
day, but what he did say was the language of triumph.
The next morning, with a pleasing smile on his coun-
tenance, he cried out, "      I shall triumph over every
foe.  The Lord hath given mo the victory. I exult
I triumph.        that I could see untainted purity
Now I know that it is impossible that faith should
not triumph over earth and hell.        " I think I have
nothing to do but to die.    Yet, perhaps I have  — Lord
show me my task." He then said, " Lord Jesus, into
                                 —
thy hands I commend my spirit I do it w^ith confi-
            —
dence I do it Avith full assm^ance. I know that thou
Avilt keep that which I have committed to thee. I
have been dreaming too fast of the time of my depar-
ture, for I find it does not come but the Lord is faith-
                                 ;


fid, and will not tarry beyond the appointed time."
   In the afternoon of this day, the Kev. Elihu Spen-
cer called to see him, and said, "I have come, dear
sir, to see you confirm by facts the gospel you have

been preaching. Pray, sir, how do you feel?" To
which he replied, "Full of triumph        —   I triumph
through Christ.       Nothing clips my wings but the
thoughts of my dissolution being prolonged.          that
it were to-night     ! My very soul thirsts for eternal
rest."    Mr. Spencer asked him what he saw in eter-
nity to excite such vehement desires.      "I see," said
he, " the eternal love and goodness of God.         I see
the fulness of the Mediator.     I see the love of Jesus.
.   .   . to be dissolved, and to be with him !   I long
to be clothed with the complete righteousness of
 Christ."    He then desired Mr. Spencer to pray with
him before they parted, and said, " I have gained the
212                      THE LOG COLLEGE.
victory over the de\dl.    Pray to God to preserve me
from    evil   —    tome from dishonouring his great
                         keep
name in this critical horn', and to support me with his
presence       in    my passage     through the valley of the
shadow of death."
   The remainder of the evening he spent in taking
leave of his friends, and blessing and exhorting such
of his. children as were present. He would frequently
cry out, " Why move the tardy hours so slow ?"    The
next day terminated the conflict.   He was no longer
able to speak, but a friend having desired him to give
a token by which it might be known whether he still
continued to triumph, he lifted up his hand and uttered
the word, " Yes."     About nine o'clock he fell into a
profound sleep, and appeared to be much more free
from pain than he had been for many days before.
He continued to sleep without changing his position,
till about one o'clock, when he expired without a sigh

or a groan.   During his whole sickness he was never
heard to utter a repining word, and in- taking leave
of his dearest friends, he was never seen to shed a tear
or to exhibit any sign of sorrow.   His death occurred
on the 16th of July, 1760, in the fifty-first year of
his age.
  It was the purpose of Dr. Finley's friends to have
his remains          removed    to Princeton   and buried with
his           predecessors, who lie interred in the
      illustrious
cemetery of that place but the heat of the weather
                                ;


rendered it inconvenient to carry the body so far,
and therefore he was buried by the side of his dear
frieixl, Gilbert Tennent, within the Second Presbyte-
rian church.     When this church was enlarged, the
remains of both these venerable men were removed to
the common burying-ground of the congregation.
Agreeably to his dying request, his body was carried
to the grave by eight members of the senior class of
the College of New Jersey.     The Trustees of the Col-
lege, to show their respect for the deceased, caused a
cenotaph to be erected in the cemetery of Princeton,
                                                     213
          THE REV. SAMUEL FINLEY.
                               the other Presidents whose
in a line ^-ith the tombs of
remains are there entombed.                        ^r o
                                    stature, and ot a
                                                i

  Dr Finley was a person of low                 he  was
                                 In the pulpit
round and ruddy countenance.
                        sententious;   and   sometnn  8
solemn, sensible, and
                    animation.    He  was   remarkable
.lowed with  fervid
                          politeness, and generosity.
for sweetness of temper,
                            for diligence and
                                                punctu-
He was also distinguished                        His ser-
ality in the performance of all his duties.
                              brilliant;  not  hasty  pro-
mons were rather solid  than
                             care, and   while they  weie
ductions, but composed with
                       the cultivated mmd,
                                               theyweie,
in a style pleasing to
at the same time, intelligible
                               by the i^iterate
                    twice married; first to
                                             Sai ah llall,
   Dr. Finley was
                                She died m the year
 by whom he had eight children.
                                   IIis second ANife
 1760 before he left Nottingham.               mej.
 Cvas   Aim   Clarkson, daughter   of^Mr Clarkson
                            a lineal descendant         ot
 chant of New York, who was                    hou-
                                   one of the two
 ?he    Rev. David Chukson, B. D.,
 sand ministers ejected for
                               non-conformity   m England
                       His second wife survived
                                                  him
 in the year 1662.                              was a
                    His  son, Ebcnczer  Finley,
 forty-one years.
 phpician      i
               Charleston, South Carolma
                            and  are
                                             where his
                                      respectable  and
 descendants still dwell,
 generally pious.   One of his daughters was mauied
 To SamuVBreeze, Es,., of          &!;-- ^^
                                                f^j ^^
                             wife ot the Bev. Jedcdiah
                                                    fh
  Avho was the mother of the

                                          considerable size;
  ^^Di^F^nley wrote no work of any
                                   and essays, ^vhich, how-
  but published several sermons
                                    In 1741 he published a
  ever! are nearly out of print.
                                entitled " Christ Triumph-
  s rmon on   Matthew  xii. 28,
  ing and Satan Raging."
                               In 1748,  "A Refutation of
                    Sermon    on  Conviction; and in he
  Mr. Thompson's
  sameyear,\ treatise against the
                                     Robe
                                         ^^^^^J^^
  "Satan Stripped of his Evangelical          J-^\^^:
                                                    Moi-
                          Antipedobaptism of Abel
   a treatise against the                        And         m
                                   ^Pee^Wess
   gan, entitled "A Blea for
                              the
   174<> he published a sermon,
                                  preached at the oidina-
21.4          THE LOG COLLEGE.
tion of tlie Rev. Dr. Rodgers, at St. George's,  March,
1749; also, a "Sermon on the Death of the Rev.
Samuel Davies," his predecessor in the college, which
is prefixed to most editions of Davies's Sermons; to
which may he added, "A Sermon occasioned by the
Death of the Rev. Gilbert Tennent," preached in the
Second Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia.
   It would be desirable, if we had the materials, to
give a history of the flourishing and important academ-
ical institutions which arose out of the L02; College,
and which were conducted on the same principles, and
with the same views, by men who had received their
education in that school.    And it would be gratifying
to our readers, we doubt not, if we were to annex some
biographical account of the eminent m.en who pro-
ceeded from these academies prior to the erection of
the College of New Jersey.     Such, for example, as
the Rev. Samuel Davies, the Rev. John Rodgers, D. D.,
the Rev. Dr. McWhorter, the Rev. Mr. Gumming, and
the Rev. Dr. Waddel but this would carry us much
                      ;


beyond our prescribed limits, and in regard to several
of the most distinguished of the persons mentioned,
would lead us over ground which has already been
occupied by abler hands.
                            CHAPTER XVII.

                      THE REV. WM. RODINSON.


An Englishman   —Occasion of      Emigration— Teaches in New Jersey
                                his
 and in Delaware  — converted—Joins the Presbyterians— Studies at
                       Is
 the Log College — Seeks out the Destitute — Taken up    Virginia — Vis-
                                                              in
 its Cub Creek — Conversion of David Austin — Sent           Hanover
                                                             for to
 Extraordinary           nwakcning— Success of
                 religiou>'                           labours — Mr. Da-
                                                       his
 vies's Letter  toMr. Bellamy— Preaches      New York with
                                               in                wonted
                                                                      his
 success — Also   Maryland — Died
                 in                   early.



   Concerning the early history of this successful
evangelist very little is known.     The only account
"which the writer has met with, is that found in a note
in the " Life of the Rev. Dr. Rodgers,"     by the Rev.
Dr. Miller.* It is here stated "that Mr. Robinson
was the son of a wealthy Quaker in England. Being
permitted to pay a visit of a few weeks to an aunt in
the city of London, from whom he had considerable
expectations, he greatly overstayed the time which had
been allowed him and becoming deeply involved in
                            ;


the dissipations of the town, he incurred large debts,
which he knew his father would never pay, and which
his aunt refused to discharge.   In this situation, fear-
ing to return home, and unable to remain longer in
London, he determined to quit his native country, and
seek his fortune in x\mcrica.    In this determination
his aunt reluctantly ac(i[uiesced, and furnished him
with a small sum of money for the purpose.          Soon
after his arrival in America he had recourse for sub-
sistence to teaching a school in                    New Jersey, in the
          * Published by the Presbyterian Board of Publication.
                                                                (215)
     216               THE LOG COLLEGE.
    bounds of the Presbytery of New Brunswick.   He
    had been for some time engaged in this business,
    without any practical sense of religion, when it
     pleased God to bring him to a knoAvledge of himself,
     and the way of salvation, in a remarkable manner.
     He was riding at a late hour one evening, when the
     moon and stars shone with unusual brightness, and
     when every thing around him was calculated to excite
     reflection.   While he was meditating on the beauty
     and grandeur of the scene which the firmament presen-
     ted, and was saying to himself, " How transcendently
    glorious must be the Author of all this beauty and
    grandeur !" the thought struck him with the suddenness
    and force of lightning, " But what do I know of this
    God ? Have I ever sought his favour, or made him
    my Friend ?" This happy impression, which proved by
    its permanency and its effects, to have come from the
.   best of all sources, never left him until he took refuge
    in Christ as the hope and life of his soul.
        It appears from some circumstances of the life of
    the Rev. Samuel Davies, that Mr. Robinson also
    taught a classical school in the state of Delaware;  for
    it is mentioned that Mr. Davies, when a boy, was one

    of his pupils  ; and his parents, we know, resided in
    the state of Delaware.
       After Mr. Robinson's conversion, he determined to
    devote his life to the service of God, in the work of
    the holy ministry ; and having fallen in with the Pres-
    byterians, he connected himself with that church ; and
    the uncontradicted tradition is, that he pursued a
    course of preparation for the ministry in the Log
    College    ;and, after the usual trials, was licensed to
    preach the gospel by the Presbytery of New Bruns-
    wick and, after some probation, was ordained by
           ;


    them as an evangelist.
      Mr. Robinson, soon after his ordination, determined
    to go and visit the " lost sheep of the house of Is-
    rael ;" thatis, the distant and dispersed settlements

    of Presbyterians in the states south of New Jersey.
            THE REV, WM. ROBINSON.                  217

 The Presbyterians, from the north of Ireland, between
 the years 1720 and 1730, had come over to America
 in large numbers.      They generally landed at New
 Castle, or Philadelphia, and then proceeded to the in-
 terior of the country.     On the frontier of Pennsyl-
 vania they were greatly infested by the hostile incur-
 sions of the Indians, which induced them to turn their
 attention to the western parts of Virginia and North
 Carolina.    In some instances whole congregations,
 driven from their homes by the savages, removed in a
 body, with their ministers, to a region less exposed to
 the incursions of their murderous foes.
    The valley between the Blue Ridge and the North
         —                                   —
mountain a fine lime-stone farming country was first
occupied by these Irish Presbyterians   ;  the Germans,
who now possess a large part of this fertile region,
came in afterwards. In many places, all along the
frontier, were small groups of Presbyterians, who were
entirely destitute of the public means of grace.     To
these scattered sheep Mr. Robinson directed his bene-
volent attention;   feeling something of the zeal which
actuated Paul, he did not wish to build on another
man's foundation, but to preach Christ where he had
not been named.       In another respect he resembled
Paul, for he went forward, fearless of danger, and as
it would seem, without even inquiring whether the

laws of the colonies into which he was going would
alloAV itinerant preachers to pass through the land.
Accordingly, he had penetrated but a short day's jour-
ney into the Old Dominion, and reached the town of
Winchester, when he was apprehended by the civil
authorities ; and it appearing that he had transgressed
the laws of the colony, a mittimus was made out by
the magistrate to send him to Williamsburg, the then
seat of government, for they were at a loss what dis-
posal to make of him.      The sheriff, to whom he was
committed, having set off on the journey, began to
think that it would be a useless thing to conduct his
prisoner to a place so distant, and finding that he was
       ly
218            THE LOG COLLEGE.
a sensible, well-disposed man, he assumed the respon-
sibility of letting him go on his missionary tour.  Mr.
Robinson proceeded along the valley, every where
finding new settlements of Presbyterians, until he
reached the waters of James river.       The writer has
heard an old man, who was among the first settlers of
the country round about Lexington, then called the
Forks, say that he had heard Mr. Robinson preach in
that settlement soon after it was formed.       But the
inhabitants in the valley, not extending any further to
the south-west, he returned, and crossing the Blue
Ridge at Rock-fish Gap, proceeded to the south,
across the country, until he reached Cub Creek, then
in Lunenburg, now Charlotte.   Here he found a pretty
large settlement of Presbyterians, where he stopped
and preached and here, as in all other places, his
               ;


ministry was attended by the Spirit of God     ;  sinners
were awakened and converted, and the people of God
were greatly strengthened and comforted.         I have
conversed with an old man, when I was young, who
was living in this settlement at the time, and was after-
wards an elder in the church organized there. His
name was Robert Weakly, born in Pennsylvania and   ;


though brought up among the opposcrs of the revival,
he was led by curiosity to hear the Rev. Samuel Blair
preach, and was brought under deep conviction, and
after many trials, he hoped, to a sound conversion.
From this time he connected hunself with the "New
Lights," as they were called.   This man, late in life,
having removed into Halifax county, where he had no
opportunity of attending on the Lord's supper in his
own church, and being debarred from the communion
by the Baptists, among whom he lived, unless he would
submit to be immersed, was at length induced to go
down with them under the water ; but though thus
nominally a Baptist, his heart was as truly Presby-
terian as ever.   He was a man of eminent and long
tried piety, and had a good report from all of every
name, whether in the church or out of it.
          THE REV. WM. ROBINSON.                     219

   This man informed me that under Mr. Robinson's
first sermon, a remarkable conversion of a half-breed
Indian, one of the wickedest of men, had taken place
under unusual circumstances. When notice was given
to his family of a sermon at the stand, by a travelling
preacher, his wife wished to go, but he positively forbade
her, but said he would go himself.         His name was
David Austin. When the congregation had collected,
he was seen lying outside the assembly, under a tree,
asleep.    And thus he lay until the preacher took his
text, which he uttered in a thundering voice, "Awake,
thou that sleepest." Austin sprang to his feet as if
pierced with a dart, and fixing his eyes on the preacher,
never removed them, but drew nigher and nigher to the
stand, until at the close he was observed standing at
the preacher's feet, and the tears streaming from his
eyes.    After a few days of pungent conviction, he re-
ceived comfort by faith in Christ, and became one of
the most eminent Christians in all the land. His talent
for administering consolation to distressed consciences
was so well known, that he has been sent for as far as
thirty miles, to converse with a lady under spiritual
darkness and distress of mind,     I have heard a pious
old mother in Israel say that she had heard Mr. Da-
vies, and Dr. Waddel, and the Smiths, converse on re-
ligion, but she never heard any one whom she found so
much comfort in hearing as old David Austin.
   A   remarkable attention to religion in the county of
Hanover existed at this time, without the aid of the
ministry.    Some persons from that .place being on a
visit to Cub Creek, when ^Ir. Robinson, on his way to
Carolina, visited that settlement, then called "The
Caldwell Settlement," gave an account upon their re-
turn of the preacher they had heard.        Upon hearing
this account, the serious people of Hanover inquired at
what time INIr. Robinson expected to return from Caro-
lina to Cub Creek, and they immediately resolved to
send two of their number to meet hiin at the time
specified.   It so happened, however, that the informa-
220              THE LOG COLLEGE.
tion received was not correct, for wlien the messengers
 arrived at Cub Creek, they found, to their disappoint-
ment, that he had passed several days before.     Deter-
mined, however, not to go back without him, they pur-
sued after him through a very rugged, mountainous
country, and overtook him at Rockfish, at the foot of the
Bkie Ridge. Mr. Robinson, upon hearing the state of
things in Hanover, did not hesitate to go with the men,
but in order to reach the place before the Sabbath, it
became necessary to ride one whole night ; and
when he arrived, the leaders of the dissenting congre-
gation were much perplexed and concerned lest his
doctrines should not accord with those which from books
they had imbibed. Therefore, before he was introduced
to the congregation, they took him into a private room,
and asked him what was his opinion of such works as
Luther on the Galatians, Boston, Bunyan, &c., and
when he expressed the warmest approbation, they were
delighted above measure.    But as it will be gratifying
to the reader to see the whole of the letter which Mr.
Davies "wrote to Mr. Bellamy, in which the narrative of
Mr. Robinson's visit to Hanover is contained, it shall
be here inserted.

  Letter from Mr. Davies, minister of Hanover, Vir-
            Bellamy of Bethlehem, in New-England.
ginia, to Mr.
                                             " June 28, 1751.
  " Rev. and Dear Sir      :
                               — " If the   publication of a nar-
rative of the rise, progress, and present situation of religion
in Virginia, may not only gratify   good people, but (as you
give me reason to hope) animate their prayers for us, and
also encourage preachers to come into these parts, I should
charge myself with a criminal neglect if I refused to publish
the marvellous works of the Lord among us.       I hope I may
observe without the umbrage of calumny, what is but too
evident to serious people of all denominations among us,
that religion has been, and in most parts of the colony still
is, in a very low state.  A  surprising negligence in attend-
ing public worship, and an equal surprising levity and uncon-
              THE   11   EV.   WM. ROBINSON.            221

cernedness in those that attend.    Family religion a rarity,
and a solemn concern about eternal things, a greater. Vices
of various kinds triumphant, and even a form of godliness
not common.     But universal fame makes it needless for me
to enlarge on this disagreeable subject.  Before the revival
in 17-43, there were a few who were awakened, as they have
told me, either by their own serious reflections, suggested
and enforced by divine energy, or on reading some authors
of the last  century, particularly Bolton, Baxter, Flavel,
]>unyan.   There was .one Mr. Samuel Morris who had for
some time been very anxious about his own salvation, who,
after obtaining blessed relief in Christ, became zealous for
the salvation of his neighbours, and very earnest to use
means to awaken them. This was the tendency of his
conversation ; and he also read to them such authors as had
been most useful to himself, particularly Luther on the
Galatians, and his Table Discourses, and several pieces of
honest Bunyan's.    By these means some of his neighbours
were made more thoughtful about their souls ; but the con-
cern was not very extensive.    I have prevailed on my good
friend just now named, who was the principal private in-
strument of promoting the late work, and therefore well
acquainted with it, to write me a narrative of its rise and
progress, and this, together with what he and others have
told me, I shall present to you without any material alter-
ations.

    '
      In the year 1740, Mr. Whitefield had preached at Wil-
liamsburgh, at the invitation of Mr. Blair, our late commis-
sary. But we being fifty miles distant from Williamsburgh,
he left the colony before we had an opportunity of hearing
him.     But in the year 1743, a young man from Scotland
had got a book of his sermons preached in Glasgow, and
taken from his mouth in short hand, which, after I
had read with great benefit, I invited my neighbours to come
and hear it ; and the plainness and fervency of these
discourses being attended with the power of the Lord,
many were convinced of their undone condition, and con-
strained to seek deliverance with the greatest solicitude. A
considerable number met to hear these sermons every Sab-
bath, and frequently on week days.      The concern of some
was so passionate and violent, that they could not avoid
crying out, weeping bitterly, &c.     And that when such in-
          19*
222                 THE LOG COLLEGE.
dicatious of religious concern were so strange and ridicu-
lous   that they could not be occasioned by example or
sympathy, and the affectation of them would be so unpro-
fitable an instance of hypocrisy, that none could be tempted
to it. My dwelling-house at length was too small to contain
the people^ whereupon we determined to build a meeting-
house, merely for reading.    And having never been used to
social extempore prayer, none of us durst attempt it.     By
this single means several were awakened, and their conduct
ever since is a proof of the continuance and happy issue of
their impressions.    When the report was spread abroad
I was invited to several places to read these sermons, at a
considerable distance, and by this means the concern
was propagated. About this time our absenting ourselves
from the established Church, contrary, as was alleged,
to the laws of the land, was taken notice of, and we were
called upon by the court to assign our reasons for it,
and      declare what denomination we were of.
        to                                         As we
knew but little of any denomination of dissenters ex-
cept Quakers, we were at a loss what name to assume.  At
length, recollecting that Luther was a noted reformer,
and that his books had been of especial service to us,
we declared ourselves Lutherans      and thus we continued,
                                        ;


until  Providence sent us the Rev. Mr. William Robin-
son.   This Mr. Robinson was a zealous, laborious min-
ister of Christ, who, by the permission of the Presbytery,
took a journey through the new settlements in Penn-
sylvania, Virginia, and North Carolina.        He founded a
congregation at Lunenburg.*      In Ameliaf also, a county
somewhat nearer us than the former, his labours were ex-
tensively blest ; and while he was there, some of our
people sent him an invitation to come and preach at
our reading house.    Being satisfied about the soundness of
his principles, and being informed that the method of his
preaching was awakening, we were very eager to hear him.
On the 6th of July, 1743, he preached his first sermon
to us from Luke xiii. 3, and continued with us preaching
four days successively.   The congregation was large the
first   day, and     vastly increased   the three      ensuing.   'Tis
hard for the liveliest imagination to form an image of the
condition of the assembly, on these glorious days of the

             * Now Charlotte.               t Now Cumberland.
            THE REV. WM. ROBINSON.                      223

Son of Man. Such of us as had been hungering for the word
before were lost in an agreeable surprise -and astonishment,
and some could not refrain from publicly declaring their
transport. We were overwhelmed with the thoughts of the
unexpected goodness of God in allowiag us to hear the
gospel preached in a manner that surpassed our hopes.
Many that came -through curiosity were pricked to the
heart, and but few in the numerous assemblies, on these
four days, appeared unaffected.     They returned alarmed
with apprehensions of their dangerous condition, convinced
of their former entire ignorance of religion, and anxiously
inquiring what they should do to be saved.      And there is
reason to believe there was as much good done by these
four sermons as by all the sermons pi'eached in these parts
before or since.   Before Mr. Robinson left us he suc-
cessfully endeavoured to correct some of our mistakes, and to
bring us to carry on the worship of God more regularly at
our meetings. After this we met to read good sermons, and
began and concluded with prayer and singing of psalms,
which till then we had omitted. The blessing of God
remarkably attended these more private means, and it
was really astonishing to observe the solemn impressions
begun or continued in many by hearing good discourses
read,  I had repeated invitations to come to many places
round, some of them thirty or forty miles distant, to- read.
Considerable numbers attended with eager attention and
awful solemnity, and several were in a judgment of charity
turned to God, and thereupon erected meeting-houses and
chose readers among themselves, by which the work was
more extensively carried on.
    '
      Soon after Mr. Robinson left us, the Rev. Mr. John
Blair paid us a visit, and truly he came to us in the fulness
of the gospel of Christ.   Former impressions were ripened,
and new ones made on many hearts. One night in particu-
lar, a whole house full of people was quite overcome with
the power of the word, particularly of one pungent sentence,
and they could hardly sit or stand, or keep their passions
under proper restraint. So general was the concern during
his stay with us, and so ignorant were we of the danger of
apostacy, that we pleased ourselves with the thoughts of
more being brought to Christ at that time than now appears
to have been ; though there is still the greatest reason to
224              THE LOG COLLEGE.
hope that several bound themselves to the Lord in an ever-
lasting covenant never to be forgotten.  Some time after
this, the Rev. Mr. Roan was sent us by the Presbytery of
New Castle.     He continued with us a longer time than any
of the former, and- the happy effects of his ministrations are
still apparent.   He was instrumental in beginning and pro-
moting the religious concern in several places where there
was little appearance of it before.    This, together with his
speaking pretty freely about the degeneracy of the clergy in
this colony gave a general alarm, and some measures were
concerted to suppress us.    To incense the indignation of the
government the more, a perfidious wretch deponed he heard
Mr. Roan utter blasphemous expressions in his sermon.
An indictment was thereupon drawn up against Mr. Roan,
(though by that time he had departed the colony,) and some
who had invited him to preach at their houses were cited to
appear before the general court, and two of them were fined.
While my cause was upon trial, I had reason to rejoice that
the throne of grace is accessible in all places, and that help-
less creatures can send up their desires unseen in the midst
of a crowd.     Six witnesses were cited to prove the indict-
ment -against Mr. Roan, but their depositions were in his
favour, and the witness who accused him of blasphemy,
when he heard of the arrival of Messrs. Tennent and Finley
fled, and has not returned since, so that the indictment was
dropped.    But I had reason to fear being banished the
colony, and all circumstances seemed to threaten the extir-
pation of religion among the dissenters in these parts.    In
these difficulties, having no person of a public character to
appear in our favour, we were determined to acquaint the
Synod of New York with our case. Accordingly four of us
went to the Synod, May, 1745, when the Lord favoured us
with success. The Synod drew up an address to our gover-
nor, the honourable Sir William Gooch, and sent it with
Messrs. Tennent' and Finley, who were received by the gov-
ernor with respect, who gave them liberty to preach among
us.   By this means the dreadful cloud was scattered for a
while, and our languid hopes revived. They continued with
us about a week, and though the deluge of passion in which
we were at first overwhelmed was by this time somewhat
abated, yet much good was done by their ministry.     The
people of God were refreshed, and several careless sinners
            THE REV. WILLIAM ROBINSON.                          225

    were awakened      Some that had trusted before in their moral
    conduct and religious duties, were convinced of the deprav-
    ity of their nature, and the necessity of regeneration, though
    indeed there were but few unrcgencrate persons among us at
    at that time, that coukl claim so regular a character, the
    most part indulging themselves     in criminal liberties,   and
    being remiss in the duties of religion, which alas is too com-
    monly the case still in such parts of the colony as the late
    revival did not extend to.
       ' After they left us, we continued vacant for a considera-


    ble time, and kept up our meetings for reading and praying
    in several places, and the Lord favoured us with his
    presence.   I was again repeatedly presented and fined in
    court for absenting myself from church, and keeping -up un-
    lawful meetings, (as they were called,) but the bush flour-
    ished in the flames.  The next that were appointed to sup-
    ply us were the Rev. Messrs. William Tennent and Samuel
    Blair.   They administered the Lord's supper among us, and
    we have reason ever to remember it as a most glorious day of
    the Son of Man. The assembly was large, and the novelty of
    the manner of the administration did peculiarly engage their
    attention.  It appeared as one of the days of heaven to
    some of us, and we could hardly help wishing we could
.   with Joshua have delayed the revolutions of the heavens to
    prolong it.   After Messrs. Tennent and Blair were gone,
    Mr. Whitefield came and preached four or five days, which
    was the happy means of giving us further encouragement,
    and engaging others to the Lord, especially among the
    church people, who received the gospel more readily from
    him than from ministers of the Presbyterian denomination.
    After his departure we were destitute of a minister, and
    followed our usual method of reading and prayer at our
    meetings, till the Rev. Mr. Davies, our present pastor, was
    sent us by the Presbytery, to supply us a few weeks in tho
    spring, 1747, when our discouragements from the govern-
    ment were renewed and multiplied ; for upon a Lord's day, a
    proclamation was set up at our meeting house, strictly re-
    quiring all magistrates to suppress "and prohibit, as far as
    they lawfully could, all itinerant preachers, &c., which Oc-
    casioned us to forbear reading that day, till we had time to
    deliberate and consult what was expedient to do.    But how
     joyfully were we surprised before the next Sabbath, whca
226             THE LOG COLLEaE.
we unexpectedly heard that Mr. Davies was come to preach so
loag among us, aud especially that he had qualified himself
according to law, aud obtaiined the licensing of four meeting
houses among us, which had never been done before. Thus
man's extremity is the Lord's opportunity. For this season-
able interposition of Divine Providence we desire to offer our
grateful praises, and we importune the friends of Zion to
concur with us.
   " Thus far Mr. Morris's narrative.      Then the Rev. Mr.
Davies proceeds to give an account of the state of their
affairs since he came among them in April, 1747.        * Upon



my aiTival I petitioned the general court to grant me a
license to officiate in and about Hanover, at four meeting-
houses, which, after some delay, was granted, upon my qua-
lifying according to the act of toleration.    I preached fre-
quently in Hanover, and some of the adjacent pounties ; and
though the fervour of the late work was considerably abated,
and my labours were not blessed with success equal to those
of my brethren, yet I have reason to hope they were of
service in several instances.    The importunities they used
with me to settle with them were invincible, and upon my
departure they sent a call for me to the Presbytery.      After
I returned from Virginia I spent a year under melancholy
and consumptive languishments, expecting death. In the
spring of 1748, I began slowly to recover, though I then
looked on it only as the intermission of a disorder that would
finally prove mortal.    But upon the arrival of a messenger
from Hanover I put my life in my hand, and determined to
accept of their call, hoping I might live to prepare the way
for some more useful successor, and willing to expire under
the fatigues of duty rather than in voluntary negligence.
The Hon. Sir Wm. Gooch, our late governor, always disco-
vered a ready disposition to allow us all claimable privileges,
and the greatest aversion to persecuting measures ; but, con-
sidering the shocking reports spread abroad concerning us
by officious maliguauts, it was no great wonder that the
council discovered considerable reluctance to tolerate us.
 Had it not been for this I persuade myself they would have
shown themselves the guardians of our legal privileges, as
well as generous ])atriot^ to their country, which is the cha-
racter generaUy given them.    "
                                 In October, 1748, besides the
 four meeting-houses already mentioned, the people petitioned
         THE REV. WILLIAM ROBINSON.                        227

for the licensing of three more, which with great diflSculty
was obtained. Among these seven I have hitherto divided
my time. Three of them lay in Hanover county, the other
four in the counties of Henrico, Carolina, Louisa, and Gooch-
land.    The nearest are twelve or fifteen miles distant from
each other, and the extremes about forty.    My congregation
is vei'y much dispersed, and notwithstanding the number of
the meeting-houses, some live twenty, some thirty, and a
few forty miles from the nearest. Were they all compactly
situated in one county they would be sufficient to form three
distinct congregations.    Many of the church people also at-
tend when there is sermon at any of these houses.      This I
looked upon at first as mere curiosity after novelty, but as
it continues, and in some places seems to increase, I cannot
but look upon it as a happy token of their being at length
thoroughly engaged.      And I have the greater reason to hope
so now, as experience has confirmed my former hopes.      Fifty
or sixty families having thus been happily entangled in the
net of the gospel by their own curiosity, or some such mo-
tive.   There are about three hundred communicants in my
congregation, of whom the greatest number are in the judg-
ment of rational charity real Christians ; besides some who
through excessive scrupulousness do not seek admission to
the Lord's table.     Thero is also a number of negroes.
Sometimes I see an hundred and more among my hearers.
(Psa. Ixviii. 31.)    I have baptized about forty of them
within these three years, upon such a profession of faith as
I then judged credible.      Some of them, I fear, have apos-
tatized ; but others, I trust, will persevere to the end.      I
have had as satisfying evidences of as sincere pifety from
several of them as I ever had from any person in my life,
and their artless simplicity, their passionate aspiratitms after
Christ, their incessant endeavours to know and do the will
of God, have charmed me.       But alas while my charge is
                                         !



so extensive I cannot take sufficient pains with them for
their instruction, which often oppresses my heart.
   " There have been instances of unhappy apostacy among
us; but, blessed be God, not many in proportion to the num-
ber brought under concern.        At present there are a few
under promising impressions, but in general a lamentable
security prevails.   Oh, for a little re^dving in our bondage !
I might have given you a particular account of the conver-
228              THE LOa COLLEGE.
sion of some persons here, as indeed there are some uncom-
mon instances of it, but I shall only observe in general, that
abstracting from particular circumstances, the work of con-
version has been carried on in such steps as are described by
experimental divines, as Alleiue, Shepherd, Stoddard, Flavel,
&c.   And nothing confirms me more in the truth of their
opinions concerning experimental piety, than this agreement
and uniformity as to the substance, in the exercises of those
that can make the fairest claim to sa\ang grace.        There is
one Isaac Oliver here, whose history, could I write it intel-
ligibly to you, would be very entertaining.        He has been
deaf and dumb from his birth, and yet I have the utmost
reason to believe he is truly gracious, and also acfjuainted
with most of the doctrines, and many of the historical facts
of the Bible.    I have seen him represent the crucifixion of
Christ in such significant signs, that I could not but under-
stand them.      Those that live in the house with him can
hold conversation with him very readily.       There is so much
of the devout ai'dour of his soul discovered at times, as is
really afiectiug, and I have seen him converse in signs about
the love and sufi'erings of Christ, till he has been transported
into earnestness, and dissolved in tears.        The above Mr.
Morris, with whom he lives, has told me that eight years
ago he appeared remarkably changed, and ever since is very
conscientious in the whole of his behaviour; generally de-
lights to attend both public and family worship, though he
cannot hear a word ; and is observed sometimes to retire to
secret prayer, though he signifies that he is praying with
his heart when about his business or in company, which is
peculiarly practicable to him, as in all places he enjoys
retirement.    I could relate several peculiarities about him,
but as they are unintelligible to myself, or might seem in-
credible to those that are unacquainted with him, I omit
them.    So much, however, I know of him, that I cannot
but look upon him as a miraculous monument of Almighty
grace, that can perform its purposes on men notwithstanding
the greatest natural or moral impediments ; and I submit it
to the judgment of others, whether a person so incapable of
external instructions, could be brought to know the mysteries
of the kingdom of heaven any other way than by immediate
revelation.   Besides the people here, several of my brethren
who have been here, particularly Messrs. Samuel Blair and
              THE REV. WM. ROBINSON.                     229

Joliu Roan, can attest this relation. I forgot to inform you,
in its proper place,- that the Kev. Mr. Davenport was sent
by the Synod to Hanover last summer, and continued here
about two months, and, blessedbe God, did not labour in
vain.  Some were brought under concern, and many of the
Lord's people much revived, who can never forget the instru-
ment of it.
   " Thus, dear sir, I have given you a brief account of what
I am persuaded you will readily own to be the work of the
Lord.     Weclaim no infallibility, but we must not fall into
scepticism.  If we could form no judgment of such a work,
why should we pretend to promote the conversion of men, if
we cannot have any satisfying knowledge of it when it ap-
pears ?  Indeed, the evidence of its divinity here is so irre-
                has extorted an acknowledgment from some
sistible, that it
from whom it could hardly be expected.      Were you, sir, a
narrow bigot, you would, no doubt, rejoice to hear that there
are now some hundreds of dissenters in a place where, a few
years ago, there were not ten ; but I assure myself of your
congratulations on a nobler account, because a considerable
number of perishing sinners are gained to the blessed Re-
deemer, with whom, though you never see them here, you
may spend a blissful eternity. After all, poor Virginia
demands your compassion, for religion at present is but like
the cloud which Elijah's servant saw. Oh that it may spread
and cover the land     !



  " As to other counties where dissenters are settled.
There are two congregations, one in Albemarle, and one in
 Augusta county, belonging     to the Synod of Philadelphia,
 that have ministers settled among them ; but those that
 have put themselves under the care of the New Castle Pres-
 bytery (which are vastly more numerous), notwithstanding
 their repeated endeavours, are still destitute of ministers.
 There are as many of them as would form five distinct con-
 gregations, three at least in Augusta, one in Frederick, and
 one at least in Lunenburgh and Amelia.* Notwithstand-
 ing the supplies our Presbytery have sent them, some of
 them, particularly Lunenburgh, have been both a year to-
 gether without one sermon.   I hope one of them may soon
 be provided by a pious young man, Mr. Todd, sent by New

                    * Now Charlotte and Cumberland.
          20
230               THE LOG COLLEGE.
Brunswick Presbytery, but I have no prospect as to the
rest; for I can now count up at least six or seven vacant
congregations in Pennsylvania, and two or three in Mary-
land, besides the five mentioned in the frontier counties of
Virginia, and a part of my own congregation, which I would
willingly declare vacant, had they opportunity of obtaining
another minister.   And there are but twelve members in
New Castle Presbytery, and two or three candidates that
are pre-engaged to vacancies in Pennsylvania.        We have
indeed, of late, licensed several pious youths, but our vacan-
cies increase almost as fast as our ministers, by the settle-
ment of new places, or the breaking out of religious concern
in places where there was   little before;and some of our
most useful members are lately called home by death, such
as Messrs. Robinson and Dean, and now Mr. Samuel Blair.
May the Lord induce faithful ministers from New England,
or wherever they might be spared, to come and help us        !



While these congregations have been destitute of settled
pastors, itinerant preaching among them has, by the bless-
ing of God, been very useful.       Mr. Robinson underwent
great hardships in North Carolina, without much success,
by reason of the fewness and savage ignorance of the inhab-
itants ; but the case is now happily altered.    A   new con-
gregation, I think upon Pee-dee river, sent a petition lately
to our Presbytery for a minister.     Besides this, I hear of
several other places in North Carolina, that are ripening
very fast for the gospel.         that the Lord would send
forth faithful labourers into his harvest    ! Mr. Robinson
was the instrument of awakening several in Lunenburgh
and Amelia, with whom I lately spent a fortnight, at their
earnest desire;  and th(;re is a prospect of doing much ser-
vice were they furnished with a faithful minister.     I met
with most encouragement in a part of Amelia county, where
very few had heard any of my brethren.        The assemblies
were large even on week days, and sometimes there appeared
much solemnity and aifcction among them. There appears
great probability of success if they had a faithful minister.
It was really afflicting to me that the necessity of my own
congregation constrained me to leave them so soon.         In
Augusta there is a great number of solid, lively Christians.
There was a. prt^tty general awakening there some years ago,
under the ministry of Messrs. Dean and Byram. I believe
              THE K E V       .   WM   .   ROBINSON.        231

three ministers might live very comfortably among them.
In Frederick county, there has also been (as I am informed
by my brethren who have been there) a considerable awak-
ening some years ago, which has had a blessed issue in
many, and the congregation have been seeking a minister
those several years.   In Maryland also, there has been a
considerable revival (shall I call it ?) or first plantation of
religion in Baltimore county, where I am informed ]Mr.
Whittlesey is likely to settle.  In Kent county, and Queen
Anne's, a number of careless sinners have been awakened
and hopefully brought to Christ. The work was begun and
chiefly carried on by the instrumentality of that favoured
man, Mr. Robinson, whose success, whenever I i-eflect upon
it,astonishes me.   Oh he did much in a little time, and
                          !


who would not choose such an expeditious pilgrimage
through this world ? There is, in these places, a consider-
able congregation, and they have made repeated essays to
obtain a settled minister.
      There was a great stir about religion     in Buckingham, a
place on the sea-shore, about four years ago, which has since
spread and issued in a hopeful conversion in several in-
stances.   They also want a minister. But the most glo-
rious display of divine grace in Maryland has been in and
about Somerset county.      It began, I think, in 1745, by the
ministry of Mr. Robinson, and was afterwards carried on by
several ministers that preached transiently there.      I was
there about two months^ when the work was at its height,
and I never saw such deep and spreading concern ; the as-
semblies were numerous, though in the extremity of a cold
winter, and unwearied in attending the word ; and frc(|uently
there were very few among them that did not give some
plain indications of distress or joy.     Oh these were the
                                                 !


happiest days that ever my eyes saw.      Since that the har-
vest seems over there, though considerable gleanings, I hear,
are still gathered.    They have of late got ]Mr. Henry for
their minister, a young man, who I trust will be an exten-
sive blessing to that part of the colony.     I shall prize it,
dear sir, as a great blessing, if you and others of the Lord's
servants and people in distant parts, favour us with your
prayers, and shall be glad to correspond with- them.      Our
acquaintance with the various parts of the church ("[ualifies
us to adapt our prayers to their state.      May your divine
232                  THE LOG COLLEGE.
Master bless you and succeed your ministrations, and pour
out his Spirit on the land where you reside."*

  Not only in Hanover, but in all the places where
Mr. Robinson preached, there were permanent fruits
of his labours. The writer has seen and conversed
with a number of persons who wfere brought to
serious consideration under the ministry of this suc-
cessful evangehst.    Old John White, who resided
near Charleatown, in Jefferson county, and who was
the father of Judge White of Winchester, was one of
Mr. Robinson's great admirers, and I believe brought
to the experimental knowledge of the truth under his
ministry.   Old Mr. Hoge, the father of the Rev. Dr.
Moses Hoge, who was a seceder, informed the writer
that he often heard Robinson w^hen he preached at
Opekin and Cedar Creek, in Frederick county, and
while he admitted that he preached the gospel faith-
fully and with great zeal, yet he said there was a want
of method in his discourses.     After Mr. Robinson's
return from this interesting tour, he laboured in the
state of New York with his usual success, and also in        .




some congregations in Maryland, where .there Avas a
blessed work of grace under his ministry.

   » "May 22d, 1745, Mr. Gilbert Tennent and Mr. Davies being at Ed-
inburgh, as agents for the trustees of the college of New Jersey (an insti-
tution that promises well, if the Lord vouchsafe it his blessing, for the
success of the gospel,) Mr. Davies informs that one Mr. Brown is lately
ordained in Augusta county, where there were sundry congregations va-
cant ever since their first settlement; that he has the care of two meetings,
and as he is a youth of piety, prudence, and zeal, there is reason to expect
that his labours will be of service in that wilderness, not only in his own
more peculiar charge, but in the neighbouring places that have no minister
of their own.   Also, that Mr. John Wright, who supplies Mr. Davies's
charge in his absence, ias wrote that since he has officiated in his place,
there are considerable appearances of success in Caroline and Henrico,
where Mr. Davies was apprehensive he laboured much in vain. When Mr.
Davies left Virginia in August last, there was a hopeful appearance of a
greater spread of religious concern among the negroes.       A few weeks be-
fore he left home, he baptized in one day fifteen negroes, after they had
been catechized for some months, and given     credible evidence  of their sin-
cerely embracing the gospel.      He also says that Isaac Oliver, the dumb
man mentioned in his letter above, has behaved as one would expect from
such promising beginnings, his conduct being such as becomes the pro-
fession of the gospel."
              THE REV. WM. ROBINSON.                233

  Probably Mr. Robinson, during the short period of
his life, was the instrument in the conversion of as

many souls  as any minister who ever lived in this
country.  The only circumstance relating to his per-
son which has come down is, that he was blind of one
eye so that by some he was called " the one-eyed
      ;


Robinson."
  We   are also entirely ignorant of the circumstances
of his death.   This event we know occurred before
the year 1751, in which Mr. Davies wrote his letter
to Mr. Bellamy, for it is mentioned with grief in that
communication.    If we mistake not, Mr. Davies has
celebrated the labours and successes of this servant
of God in one of his poems, and Mr. Tennent some-
where speaks of him as " that wonderful man." Mr.
Robinson was never married, and had, it is believed,
no relatives in this country, and as far as appears
never printed anything, nor left any of his writings to
be a memorial to posterity of his fervent piety and
evangelical spirit.   It   is   not even known where his
body rests but his glorious Master whom he served so
              ;


faithfully in the gospel, will know where to find it
when he shall come to resuscitate the bodies of
his saints.

          20*
                        CHAPTER XVIII.

             MEMOIR OF REV. JOHN ROWLAND.


Mr. Rowland received by the       New Branswick Presbytery at its first
                                            —           —
  meeting, in violation of the rule of Synod His trials Speedy licen-
  sure—   Accepts a call to Maidenhead              —
                                        and Hopewell Great revival His
                   —
  letter to Mr. Prince                          —
                          Removal to Pennsylvania Revival at New Provi-
  dence — Close of  unknown.
                 life



  Of Mr. Rowland nothing is known prior to tlie time
when he was taken under the care of the New Bruns-
wick Presbytery, at its first meeting in August, 1738.
It is certain, indeed, that he was an alumnus of the
Log College, where probably he reoeivedTthe principal
part of his education.
    In "receiving him under their care, the Presbytery
deliberately violated a standing rule of the Synod,
which required that every candidate, before being
taken on trials by any Presbytery, should submit him-
self to an examination on his classical and scientific
attainments by a committee of the Synod.      This rule
the Presbytery of New Brunswick believed to be arbi-
trary, and an undue infringement on the rights of
Presbyteries, and therefore determined to disregard
it.   This was undoubtedly a rash and disorderly pro-
ceeding.     Even if their opinion about the rights of
Presbyteries had been correct, they should first have
remonstrated against the Synod's rule, and endeav-
oured to have it repealed.     But the members of this
new Presbytery having been the principal supporters
of the Log College, considered the rule of the Synod
as particularly directed against that institution, and
on this account were disposed to resist it. Hence
      (234)
            THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND.                 235

arose the violent dissension between tliis Presbytery
and the Synod, which issued in a division of the body
into two parts, the Okl and the New Side of which an
                                           ;


account has ah-eady been given.
   At this first meeting of the New Brunswick Presby-
tery, tlie following ministers and elders were present,
viz., Gilbert Tennent, John Cross, William Tennent,
Eleazar Wales, and Samuel Blair.       The elders were
James McCoy, John Henry, William Moor, Robert
Cunningham, and Thomas Davis.           As none in the
minutes are marked as absent, it would seem that this
first meeting of the Presbytery set an example de-
serving the imitation of their successors.     All the
ministers were in their places, and an equal number of
ruling elders, so that there was no delinquency on
their part.   The first business, after they were regu-
larly constituted, was the receiving of Mr, John Row-
land as a candidate under their care.    And in reaiard
to the rule of Synod, after much discussion they
adopted the following resolution :



   " That in point of conscience, they were not re-
strained from using the liberty and power which Pres-
byteries all along have hitherto enjoyed; but that it
was their duty to take the said Mr. Rowland on trials,
for which conclusion they conceive they have many
weighty and sufiicient reasons."
   The Presbytery then proceeded to the examina-
tion of Mr. Rowland, " on the several parts of learn-
ing, and on his experience of a work of converting
grace in his soul, which he sustained to their satis-
faction."
  The    trials   of Mr. Rowland were   carried through
as rapidly as was consistent with the usage in such
cases.   The Presbytery met again on the 1st day of
September of the same year, when he read a Latin
exegesis, and a sermon on Psalm Ixxxvii. 5.    With
these trials the Presbytery expressed themselves well
pleased, and assigned him as the subject of a popular
sermon, Romans iii. 24, and adjourned to meet the fol-
236            THE LOG COLLEGE.
lowing week at Freehold, when Mr. Rowland preached
at the opening of the Presbytery, who having taken
                                           -




the sermon under consideration, it was highly and*
unanimously approved.
   The candidate having now gone through all the
j)rescribed trials, after adopting the Westminster
Confession of Faith as the confession of his faith,
was licensed to preach the gospel of Christ. His
licensure took place exactly one month after he was
taken under the care of the Presbytery. There is no
reason to lead us to conclude that Mr. Rowland was
deficient in the qualifications requisite for the ofiice of
the ministry.    From the record it appears that the
Presbytery Avere well satisfied with all the parts of his
trials; and it is known that he was a popular and an
awakening preachei", and that his ministry was attended
with much success.
   As might, have been expected, this act of the Pres-
bytery brought down upon them the censm-e of the
Synod; and the Presbytery not being disposed to
submit to a rule which they considered arbitrary and
inconsistent with their rights, things grew worse and
worse, until the parties separated.     Before this event,
however, the Synod absolutely refused to consider
Mr. Rowland as a member of their body. They did
not deny that he was a minister of the gospel, but
alleged, that having been brought in contrary to their
rules, he could not be recognized as a member.           It
appears from Mr. Rowland's letter to the Rev. Mr.
Prince of Boston, that on the very day of his being
licensed to preach the gospel, an application was made
to the Presbytery for his services by the united con-
gregations of Maidenhead (Lawrence,) and Hopewell,
(Pennington.)    And it was not long after this that he
was artfully personated by Tom Bell, when he was
absent on a preaching tour in Maryland, in company
with the Rev. William Tennent.         On his return, as
has been related in the life of Mr. William Tennent,
he was indicted for horse-stealing and robbery, and was
          THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND.                         237

cleared   by the testimony of Mr, Tennent and two
others, who swore that he was at the time in a distant
part of the country.But the impression on the public
mind was so strong, that he was the person seen by
many in the possession of the stolen horse, that the
three witnesses, including Mr. Tennent, Avere indicted
for perjury, and one of them actually suffered the pen-
alty of the law for this crime.   How wonderfully Mr.
Tennent was delivered from an ignominious punish-
ment may be seen in the memoir which we have pub-
lished of this extraordinary man.
   Mr. Rowland accepted the invitation of the congre-
gations before mentioned, and his labours among them
were attended with an extraordinary blessing, in a
great revival of religion in both these congregations.
But as Mr. Rowland himself has given a narrative of
this work of grace in a letter to the Rev. Mr. Prince,
of Boston, we think it most expedient to publish his
own account in his own w^ords.
  The letter is as follows      :




  " Rev. Sir   :   —In answer                   —
                                           I was sent forth
                                to yours, &c.
to preach the gospel of Christ,  by the Presbytery of New
Brunswick, on September 7th, 17o8, on which day the con-
gregations of Maidenhead and Hopewell put in a supplica-
tion for nie to the Presbytery, and accordingly I complied
therewith.   In process of time, we had the privilege of
Maidenhead meeting-house, and my people built a meeting-
house in Hopewell but before this, we were constrained to
                      ;


keep our meetings in barns in both towns ; and though we
thus appeared as poor, despised creatures, yet the congrega-
tion that attended my ministry was so numerous that the
largest barns among us were chosen to worship God in.       It
was some discouragement to me at first, that 1 and my peo-
ple had no better places for divine worship ; but at that time
I thought on these things, which proved some support to
me, viz., that our Jjord and Saviour was born in a mean
place, and likewise preached in the ship, and on the moun-
tain, as well as in the synagogues, and that it had been the
frequent lot of his people to betake themselves to worship
him in places attended with many inconveniences. There is
238                     THE LOG COLLEGE.
another town lying contiguous to Hopewell, which is called
Amwell ; the people there were something numerous like-
wise, and having none to labour among them in the word,
they petitioned for a part of my time, viz., one Sabbath in
three, and it was granted unto them ; so that my labours
among these three towns, for the most part of the time that
I lived in the Jerseys, were equally divided.       There was a
small number in Hopewell and Maidenhead, truly acquainted
with vital religion, as far as I could judge, before I came
among them, and they seemed so earnest in prayer night
and day, to have the gospel in power among them, as if
they would take no denial.       But of them who became my
congregation in Amwell, there were but very few that knew
the Lord Jesus when I came among them ; yet in many
ways they were a very agreeable people, so that I was much
encouraged to labour among them.
    "The subjects which I chiefly insisted on for about six
months were conviction and conversion, and usually I made
choice of the most rousing and awakening texts to set forth
the nature of these doctrines       and I have reason to hope
                                          ;


 that the Lord began to accompany his word in a measure
 from the very first. Some began to be convinced that they
 were in the way to misery, and unacquainted with the way
 to the kingdom of heaven.       But then, let it be observed,
 that but one or two were taken with convictions at a time,
 or under one sermon.       For many months together * their
 convictions were still increased, and the number of the con-
 vinced was still multiplied.     I commonly preached in the
•night as well as in the day, and frequently on week days
 also ; so that they had hardly any opportunity to cast their
 convictions out of their thoughts, the Lord continuing to
 co-operate with his word.    The fre(juent opportunities which
 I took to examine them were made very beneficial, through
 the I)ivine blessing, to preserve their convictions alive until
 the time of grace, of which I shall speak afterwards.       The
 attention of all in general was awakened      fathers, mothers,
                                                    ;


 and the youth ; some negroes, also, seemed very earnest after

      * " Let none suppose that because I speak of convictions being still
    carried on, that I mean that sinners must be convinced to some high de-
    gree before they ca^n be converted I only mean that this was the way
                                      ;



    which the Lord observed in carrying on his work, to keep sinners for a
    long time under conviction before he manifested his love to them."
                THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND.                  239

the word, and were convinced thereby of their sin and mis-
ery, and that Christ they must have, or perish for ever.
   " The people of God were much eulivened to see poor sin-
ners convinced of the perishing nature of their state, and
their absolute need of Christ.    Their supplications to God
were mostly bent for the conversion of sinners ; and their
conversation, whenever they met together, as far as I ob-
served it, (_and frequent opportunities I had to observe it,)
savoured exceedingly of the thirtgs of God, so that I can-
not say that I ever saw those pious people given to world-
liness in their conversation, or to lightness and vanity in
their discourses.  Great was the love they bore to one ano-
 ther, and sweet was the peace which subsisted among them-
selves, so that I was not interrupted from my work by
making up differences among them.
  " In the month of May, 1739, I began to think that the
most inviting and encouraging subjects would be the most
agreeable to convinced souls, and accordingly I began with
                                  ' The
these words, John xi. 28, 29   :         Master is come, and
calleth for thee.    As soon as she heard that, she arose
quickly, and came unto him.'     The discourse upon this sub-
 ject was brought home, through the divine influence, upon
the souls of many.     Solemn weeping and deep concern ap-
peared through the congregation.        I had hopes that the
hearts of some had been knit close to Jesus our Lord, which
afterwards appeared to be so ; of which more hereafter.      I
was still encouraged to go on in inviting convinced sinners
to come and embrace the person and purchase of the dear
Lord Jesus. Then I made choice of that word in Matthew
xxii. 4 :
            —
           ' And  all things are ready: come unto the mar-
riage.'  This was also blessed to poor convinced souls. They
were brought under a full persuasion that Jesus, the Sou of
God, was ready and willing to embrace them with his ever-
lasting favour, and to pardon their sins and transgressions
but then they found more of their own hardness, and had a
clearer view of their own unwillingness to come unto the
Lord Jesus Christ, which increased their mourning and sor-
row, and made them press forward with more living ear-
nestness in search after Jesus Christ.    A   variety of other
engaging subjects I made use of for a considerable time, to
press them to a full closure with Jesus Chi-ist.   At length,
by frequent converse among them, and inquiring        strictly
Ii40            THE LOO COLLEGE.
into the nature of the views they had of Christ, and the
outgoings of their souls after him, and their willingness to
be ruled by Jesus Christ in their whole hearts and lives, I
could not but be favourable in my thoughts of such, as
persons favoured of the Lord.
   " I find, by reading what accounts I kept by me of the
blessed work of grace which hath been in these towns, that
there was much good done by visiting, by which means I
found out many that had been touched, of whom I had not
well heard how it was with them, which gave me an oppor-
tunity to offer such things unto them as might tend to fix
these beginnings in their souls, and increase them.    So,
likewise, many were convinced of their lost state by nature.
By particular examinations I found, likewise, that private
examination of persons, as to their state and condition, is an
excellent means to lay them open to conviction under the
public word ; and thus were some convinced in these towns.
    " The divine influence of the Spirit of God was very
evidently afforded with his word, though not in every
opportunity, yet in several, until May 1740, 'in which time
many more were added unto the Lord's people. Some of
these opportunities, for clearness sake, I shall mention.
One was on October 6th, 1739, in a night meeting; but the
people not having been warned with sufficient care, there
met but about fifteen persons, eleven of whom were deeply
convinced of their misery, and some of them cried out
so very awfully that I was constrained to conclude.     After
sermon I took an opportunity to inquire of those persons
what was the real cause of their crying out in such a
manner. Some of them answered me, ' that they saw hell
opening before them, and themselves ready to fall into
it.'   Others answered me, ' that they were struck with
such a sense of their sinfulness, that they were afraid
the Lord would never have mercy on them.'         Another of
these opportunities was on December 30th, 1739.             As
to myself, I felt exceeding poor in the frame of my soul ; so
that I thought I might well say, as in the words of the
text I preached on that day, Isa. 6, * What shall I cry ?'
But the Lord was pleased to manifest his grace and power
exceedingly thi-ough the whole service.       The people of
Grod were much enlarged in love to see that whatever
gracious word was sent with power into their hearts was
            THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND.                      241

sent from   God ; for tlie man knoweth not what to cry,
without being guided by the word and Spirit.            Some
hardened creatures, who thought not much of religion,
as if there was no reality in it, were deeply convinced
of the truth, reality, and beauty of religion.   Others, who
knew not well which way to walk, or what to choose, op-
posers I cannot call them, though they had not joined with
our side ; such I say, as far as we could judge the tree
by the fruit, were also- convinced and converted under that
discourse.   Many youths also were wrought upon, so that
I cannot say truly that any remained untouched.      Some of
these persons were pleased to tell me, that they never would
forget this day, in which Grod had been so gracious unto
them.     As to backsliders from convictions, who were
not converted, I shall afterwards speak of them.   The night
of the same day being spent in public worship (viz. the
first part thereof), was attended with the same divine
influence.   Another of these opportunities was on April
6th, 1740, in Maidenhead.      The subject that was insisted
on was the gospel-net, from Matt. xiii.      Many who were
not acquainted with the spiritual nature of the gospel in the
least degree, as far as I found, were greatly bowed down,
and brought to own that it was the Lord's work which was
carried on.    The people, in general, through the whole
assembly, sfcemed as if they were humbled before the Lord,
which afterwards proved itself to be so. Without con-
troversy,  many of these slipped out of the net as fast
                           ,




as  they could; yet many, blessed be God, were held in
it by almighty power.

   " I come next to speak of the times of most re-
markable power that I witnessed in these towns. It began
on this wise  : there had been a week day's meeting in
Maidenhead, on July 24th, 1740.        Worship seemed to
be attended with much warmth of affection, which gave
much encouragement to the minister again ; for luke-
warmness at this time had prevailed very much among
the people, and the affections of some were much removed
from others of their fellow members, neither did they seem
to have such a thirst for the word of Grod as formerly.
Things had come to this pass in about two mouths; but
how astonishing it is to consider what sweet methods
the Lord observed to remove them   !for, as the peojjle were

       21
242              THE LOG COLLEGE.
passing homewards through the town after worship, some
inclined to stop at one of the Christian liouses ; and
the stopping of some occasioned others to stop till the
number was about forty ; and when they were all set
in the house, that the time might be profitably spent,
the first part of the fiftieth psalm was sung, which seemed
to be performed with unusual quickening.       When singing
was over, the same verses were explained at some length, and
the Spirit of the Lord was pleased to work by it upon
all that were present, as far as we could discern by the
outward man, and much converse that was spent among
them      in particular.
        all                In about an hour afterwards,
the      of G-od's people that were present was uncom-
      love
monly inflamed to Jesus Christ ; their views of his majesty
and glory were much enlarged, their longings after him
much stirred up, and their fear of him graciously in-
creased;   their zeal for God's glory was kindled anew,
and their concern for the cause of God seemed to receive
much growth ; and as to the unconverted that were present
we could not find otherwise but that they had received very
clear discoveries of their undone state by nature.
   " This was followed with the mighty power of God, in a
sermon next evening, to a large congregation in the same
town.    And in Amwell, July 27th, and in Maidenhead
again on August 3d, God was pleased to magnify his grace
in visiting many poor sinners.    In these opportunities he
opened their eyes to see themselves without Christ, and
without hope in the world their convictions were attended
                            ;


with great horror and trembling, and loud weeping, which I
supposed could not be stopped so easily as some do imagine;
for I observed that many did continue crying in the most
doleful manner along the road in their way home, and it
was not in the power of man to prevail with them to refrain,
for the word of the Lord remained like fire upon their hearts.
Furthermore, the Lord was pleased to add many more to my
people, who used not to walk with them, who still continue
in communion with them, of whom I hope it may be said,
that they are growing in grace, and in the knowledge of
Jesus Christ. The seed of the word was dropped into the
hearts of others, who bore not much regard to the doctrine
of the new-birth which was preached among us, and did not
spring up visibly until near three years after.
            THE HEV. JOHN ROWLAND.                          243

   "As to the issue of these convictions which I have last
mentioned, I think it must be owned that many of them were
followed with a sound conversion, or else we must give up
speaking any thing as to any grace in this life. Many back-
slided and became stiff-necked again, though I must say that
I have not seen such backslidings in these towns as I have
seen in many others ; the instances are but few in them in
comparison to what I have seen in most other places that I
have been acquainted with. One great means to prevent
backsliding from convictions in Amwell was this : when
the husband was taken, the wife was also taken, or when the
wife was visited, the husband was also, so that they were
ever stirring up each other.     Many such instances are in
the town of Amwell, upon which account that congregation
appears to me peculiarly beautiful; and as to Maidenhead
and Hopewell, I believe that one great means that the Lord
used there to prevent backsliding, was the care and diligence
of some of the Christian people in conversing with the con-
vinced for several of the Christians were so engaged in deep
       ',




concern for the work of God, that they could not rest satis-
fied until they had reason to hope that the souls that were
convinced from one time to another, were also brought
through to sound conversion.
   " Respecting the nature of this work which I have been
speaking of, it will appear yet more distinct by giving some
account of their experiences.       And first, I would speak
something more of their convictions ; they can give a very
difierent account of sin, both original and actual ; their views
of heart corruption, their distance from God, and their having
lived so long without him, were very clear and affecting j
their hardness and unbelief, their ignorance and blindness,
pi-essed very close upon them; their need of Christ and his
Spirit was such, in their appi'ehension, that there     was no
rest nor contentment to be taken in any thing here below,
until they did obtain an interest in Jesus Christ, and receive
his Spirit to purify and sanctify their hearts.     There are a
few among them whose convictions were not attended with
any considerable degree of horror ; they were very watchful
over themselves lest they should receive false comfort, and
so rest in ungrounded hopes ; their hunger after Jesus
Christ, his righteousness, and all his fulness, wasvery earnest,
and their experience of it very clear ; therefore they wanted
244              THE LOG COLLEGE.
 the word preached often, and they would sit under it with
 great affection, waiting on the Lord.    Their views of the
 Lord Jesus, in his person, nature and offices, were very
clear, and their acquaintance with the actings of their faith
on him, together with the out-going of their souls in love
towards him.      They can give a satisfying account of those
things according to the holy Scriptures.      Their experience
of a saving closure with Jesus Christ, and the sweet mani-
festations they had of him at the time of spiritual marriage,
were very glorious, and their affections have been often
stirred afresh towards Jesus Christ in meditating on, and
speaking of their espousals.    They are careful to maintain a
holy communion with God in the general course of their
lives.   I have seen some of them in considerable agonies
when they have been under the hidings of God's face, so
that they could take no rest by any means, until the gra-
cious Lord would be pleased to shine again upon them with
the light of his countenance.    They are properly diligent iu
the things of this life, yet they are ready to attend on the
word of God on any opportunity that offers to them on week
days.
    " They still continue zealous for God and his truth ; their
walk is steady in the ways of God, and not unconstant and
uneven.     And that I may conclude with Hopewell and
Maidenhead, I would say, that Jesus Christ has gathered
for himself a blessed flock there ; and however they may be
vilified and scorned by those who have their portion in this
life, yet I hope no less but that they are precious with God,

and shall be satisfied with the pleasures of his right hand
for evermore.     Amen."
   After some time, Mr. Rowland removed from New
Jersey into Pennsylvania, where he had charge of a
congregation in what is called " the Great Valley,"
and also of Providence, near to Norristown. Much of
his time, however, seems to have been spent in itiner-
ating, and preaching from place to place during the
great awakening Avitli which the churches were then
visited.
   The only account Avhich we have of Mr. Rowland's
labours and success in Pennsylvania, is given by
himself in his narrative sent to Mr. Prince.
            THE REV. JOHN ROWLAND.                        245

   "In the year 174-," says he, "I came and lived iu
Charlcstown, Pennsylvania, and have continued according
to the order of the Presbytery, preaching among them, and
the people of New Providence.        But as my ministry has
been chiefly successful at the latter place, since I came into
these parts, I shall only speak of what I have observed of
the work of God in New Providence.
   " The people of this place, before 1 came, were but an
ignorant sort of people, unacquainted with religion, both as
to principle and practice ; and though they would pretend,
some to be of one denomination, and some of another, yet
a vain name was all.       Looseness prevailed much in the
place, and there was not one to speak to another in a suit-
able manner, neither of the vilcncss, deformity, and unpro-
fitableness of the ways of sin, nor of the glory and excel-
lency, and profitableness of the ways of God.      I know not
that any of them observed family prayer, or even asked a
blessing on their food.    This was the case among them, as
they told me at several times, and again since I began to
•write this narrative.   The conviction and conversion of the
people of New Providence occurred within about two months
of one another.     It was the time of my travelling among
them that the Lord chose to bless for their ingathering to
Jesus Christ; and since I have laboured statedly among
them, it has been as much my endeavour to build up those
who were called into the fellowship of God, as to convince
sinners of their misery, and to this end my labours were
blessed again among them throughout the year 174-.          As
to their conviction and conversion unto God, I may say,
they are capable to give a scriptural, account of these things.
I forbear to speak of many extraordinary appearances, such
as some scores crying out at one instant, and of others
falling down and fainting.
   " These people are still increasing, and blessed be the
Lord, they are endeavouring to walk in communion with
God, and with one another. And for this end, they meet
in society, in the meeting house, two or three hours at a
time, for prayer and praise  and they find this an excellent
                             ;


means to prepare them for tlio holy Sabbath. They arc
careful to maintain the worship of God in their families,
and to use all agreeable [proper] means to increase their
own knowledge in the things of God.
        21*
246            THE LOG COLLEGE.
   " 1 choose to say no more, though I may truly say that
what I have spoken of the glorious work of God in this
place, and in the towns of Amwell, Hopewell, and Maiden-
head, is but a very little to what I might have said."
  There is one circumstance connected with this revi-
val in New Providence, which in a peculiar manner in-
terests the writer. His own grandfather and grand-
mother, then residing on the Schuylkill above Norris-
town, were subjects of this revival, and members of this
church, although they were awakened under the preach-
ing of Mr. Whitefield, at White Clay Creek.
   Though Mr. Rowland filled a considerable space in
the chui'ch wdiile he lived, as he was a Boanerges in
denouncing the terrors of the law against impenitent
sinners, insomuch that he acquired among the irreli-
gious, the title so often given to faithful preachers,
" the hell-fire Rowland," yet no word or memorial of
the close of his life remains.     He seems not to have
been married, and to have died early.
   Here we may remark, that none of the distinguished
ministers of that period, except William Tennent, sen.,
reached the age of seventy ; and some of the most able
and successful among them did not even arrive at the
age of forty. Among these we reckon Samuel Blair,
Samuel Davies, Wm. Robinson, and John Rowland.
These men may be said to have lived fast. They did
much for their Lord in a short time.      Being burning
as well as shining lights, they were themselves con-
sumed, while they gave light to others.      Oh that a
race of ministers, like-minded, burning with a con-
suming zeal, might be raised up among us    !
                        CHAPTER XIX.

                 THE REV. CHARLES            IBEATTY.




                    —                    —                  —
Rev. Charges Beatty Birth and education Acts as a pcdlor Converses
  in Latin with the Founder of the Log College  —   Becomes a student in
                —                                               —
  the Institution Is licensed to preach— Settles at Neshaminy A mis-
                        —                               —
  sionary to the Indians An agent for the Widows' Fund For the College
  of New Jersey —                                   —
                    Goes to Barbadoes and dies there Mr. Treat.


   The Rev. Charles Beattj was another of the pupils
of the Log College, whose name should be rescued from
oblivion.
   Mr. Beatty was a native of the north of Ireland,
where he had enjoyed the privilege of a pretty good
classical education, but being of an adventurous and
enterprising spirit, when quite young he determine^to
emigrate from the land of his nativity, and seek his ror-
tune in America.      Being destitute of property, he
adopted the plan of making his living in the capacity
of a pedler or travelling merchant. One day, in the prose-
cution of his business, he called at the Log College, and
astonished Mr. Tennent, the principal, by addressing
him in correct Latin, and appeared to be familiar with
that language.    After much conversation, in which
Mr. Beatty manifested fervent piety, and considerable
religious knowledge, as well as a good education in other
respects, Mr. Tennent said to him, " Go and sell the
contents of your pack, and return immediately and
study with me.    It will be a sin for you to continue
a pedler, when you can be so much more useful in
another profession."      He accepted Mr. Tenncnt's
offer, and in due time became an eminent minister.

                                                        (247)
248               THE LOG COLLEGE.
This account is no doubt authentic, as it is taken from
Dr. Miller's Life of Dr. Rodgers, who had long been
intimately acquainted with Mr. Beatty.
   After Mr. Beatty had finished his studies at the
Log College, he was licensed to preach the gospel by
the Presbytery of New Brunswick     and in a short time
                                     ;


afterwards, was settled as pastor of the church at
Neshaminy, left vacant by the death of the venerable
founder of the Log College.   About this time, in con-
sequence of the publication of Brainerd's journal of
missionary labours among the Indians, a missionary
spirit seems to have been enkindled among the minis-
ters of the Presbyterian church, in connection with the
Synod   of   New York and New Jersey.      Under this
influence, bothMr. Beatty of Neshaminy, and Mr.
Treat of Abington, left their congregations, and went
on a mission to the Indians. In Allen's American
Biographical Dictionary, it is stated that Mr. Beatty
was engaged in missionary work from 1740 to 1765, a
period of twenty-five years.    This must be a great
mistake Mr. Beatty was not in the ministry so early as
        ;


1740, and his service as a missionary did not continue
OM^ixth of the time specified.*
   J>lr. Beatty was an able, evangelical preacher, and

was much esteemed for his private virtues and public
labours.     He seems to have possessed much of a
public spirit, and a popular address; for he was twice
employed as an agent, first in behalf of the Widows'
Fund, established for the benefit of the families of
poor Presbyterian ministers.     This agency was per-
formed by the appointment of the Synod, and oc-
curred about the year 1761, so that he could not then
have been on a mission to the Indians. Afterwards
he was appointed to collect funds for New Jersey Col-
lege, and in pursuance of this object he went to the
island of Barbadoes, Avhere he was taken sick, and
died on the 13th of August, 1772.       He had been
                     * See Appendix IV.
         THE REV. CHARLES BEATTY.                  249

appointed a trustee of the College in 1763, and con-
tinued its ardent friend until the day of his death
and indeed he sacrificed his life in endeavouring to
promote its prosperity.
  It appears from the college records, that Dr. With-
erspoon himself had been appointed to visit the West
Indies to collect funds for the college, but finding it
inconvenient to go he recommended his son, James
Witherspoon, to tlie Board; upon which this gentle-
man was commissioned, and also       the Rev.   Charles
Beatty to accompany him.    The death of Mr. Beatty
frustrated the scheme, as upon his death Mr. Wither-
spoon returned home.       In regard to Mr. Beatty's
death, the only thing on record in the minutes of the
trustees, in whose service he was employed, is the
following, viz:
                 " It appearing that Mr. Edward Ire-
land, in Barbadoes, had showed particular kindness to
Mr. Beatty, ordered that W. P. Smith, Esq., write a
letter of thanks to him in the name of the Board.''
   As Mr. Treat, minister of Abington, though not edu-
cated at the Log College, was closely associated with
the members of the New Brunswick Presbytery, and
sympathized with them in all their measures, and was
one of those cast out by the protest of the majority of
the members of the Synod of Philadelphia, it may be
proper to say of him, that he was highly esteemed as a
preacher and as a man, and Avas an active and zealous
promoter of the revival. He and Mr. Beatty were
neighbours in their fields of labour, and were men of
a like spirit.   They both went as missionaries to the
Indians, and were devotedly attached to the Ilev.
 David Braincrd   ;   an evidence of Avhich we have
 recorded in his journal.   When they understood that
 he was about to leave the work, on account of increas-
 ing ill health, they travelled all the way to Princeton
 to see him before he left New Jersey.
    Mr. Treat is mentioned by Mr. Whitefield in his
 jom-nal^ as a minister who had been preaching several
250            THE LOG COLLEGE.
years without any acquaintance with experimental
religion, but was brought under deep concei'n for his
soul by hearing Mr. Whitefield preach.  And having,
as he believed, experienced at this time a change of
heart, he became very zealous in preaching the doc-
trines of- grace, and warning professors against the
delusion of resting on a mere form of religion.
                   APPENDIX I.
          MR. WILLIAM TENNENT S LETTER,


                                      Fehruary 27, 1757.
   " My Dear Brother     :   —Yoursof the 14th of January
I received last night.It was precious to me, as it seemed to
inflame an aifection which I trust shall continue throughout
eternity.   How sweet is love to the brethren   !   How re-
freshing to feel that what we have is no further our own
than as it serves to glorify Grod. and benefit his people
                                                        !   I
never questioned, though I wondered at your regard for me.
But to pass to something of greater importance. I went to
college last Monday, having heard that God had begun a
work of the Spirit there, and saw as astonishing a display of
God's power and grace as I ever beheld or heard of in the
conviction of sinners.   Not one member in the house missed
it in a greater or lesser degree.     The whole house was a
Bochim.        A
              sense of God's holiness wag so impressed on
the hearts of its inhabitants, that there were only two who
were esteemed to be religious, that I know of, whose hopes
were not greatly shaken.      The glorious ray reached the
Latin school, and much afi^ected the master and a number of
the scholars.    Nor was it confined to the students only
some others were awakened. I spoke with all the members
personally, except one that I providentially found, the most
of whom inquired with anxious solicitude what they should
do to be saved, according to the example of the trembling
jailor.    .   I never saw any in that case who had more
               .



clear views of God, themselves, their duty, defects, their
impotence and misery, than they had in general.     Every
room had mourning inhabitants ; their studies witnessed to
their prayers.   You will want to know how they behaved.
I answer, as solemn mourners at the funeral of a dear

                                              (251)
 252                        APPENDIX.
friend.   It pleased the Lord so to order it that there were
no public outcries. I believe there never was in any house
more genuine sorrow for sin and longing for Jesus. The
woi-k so far exceeded my most enlarged expectations, that I
was lost in surprise, and constrained often to say, Is it so ?
                                                         '


Can it be true V Nor is my being eye and ear witness from
Monday to Friday at two o'clock, able to recover me from
my astonishment. I felt as the apostles when it was told
them the Lord had risen. They could not believe through
fear and great joy.   Surely the good, the great Jehovah, is
wise in counsel and wonderful in working.     I can truly say
that my reverend brethren and myself felt no small degree
of that pleasing surprise that possessed the Israelites in their
return from the Babylonish captivity, mentioned in Psalm
cxxvi   :
             '   When the Lord turned again the captivity of Zion,
we were like them      that dream.   'The Lord         hath done
great things for us, whereof we are glad.''
   " This glorious woi-k was gradual, like the increasing light
of the morning.    It was not begun by the ordinary means
of preaching, nor have any alarming methods been used to
promote this religious concern, yetso great was the distress
that I did not think proper to use any arguments of terror
in public, lest some should sink under the weight of their
distress.  Notwithstanding, I found by conversing with
them, that a wise and gracious Providence had brought
about a concurrence of different incidents, which tended to
engage them to a serious thoughtfulness about their souls.
These things considered in connection, I humbly conceive,
manifest singularly the finger of Grod, the freeness of which
grace will equally appear by considering, that a little before
this gracious, never to be forgotten visitation, some of the
youth had given a greater loose to their corruptions than
                                —
was common among them a spirit of pride and contention,
to the great grief and almost discouragement of the worthy
president.   There was little or no motion of the passions in
the preachers during their public performances, nor any
public discourses in the hours allotted for study, but at the
morning and evening prayers, and these brief, consisting of
plain scriptural directions, proper to persons under spiritual
trouble.         The president never shone in my eyes as he does
now.        His good judgment and humility, his zeal and integ-
rity, greatly       endeared him to me.     Before I came away,
                       APPENDIX.                           253

sevcnil received soraething like the spirit of adoption, being
tenderly affected with a sense of redeeming love, and thereby-
disposed and determined to endeavour after holiness in all
things.
   " I cannot fully represent the glorious work.    It will bear
your most enlarged apprehensions of a work of grace.         Let
God have all the glory. My poor children, through free
grace, partook of the shower of blessing. Eternally praised be
my God and Father, who has herein pitied the low estate of
his most mean and worthless servant, in graciously granting
me my desire. This to me is a tree of life; yea, it is to my
soul as if I had seen the face of God.     I left them in dis-
tress. They are in the hands of a gracious God, to whom I have
long since devoted them with all my heart and soul. Seeing
you desire to know their names, they are John and William.
Perhaps a few lines from you, dear brother, might be
blessed to them. Praying our sincerest affection to Mrs. Fin-
ley, I greatly need your prayers, that I may be thankful
and faithful unto death.      I am yours,
                                  « WM. TENNENT, Jr."
          22
                  APPENDIX II.
  THE REV. WILLIAM TENNENTS LETTER.

The Rev. William Tenncnt's Letter to the Rev. Mr. Prince, of Boston,
         giving the chiiracter of the revival in Freehold, N. J.


   The following letter gives an interesting account of
the fruits of the ministry of the Rev. John Tennent.
It is taken from Prince's Christian History.

                                       Freehold.,   October 11th, 1744,
   " Rev. and dear Sir        —
                             I desire to notice thankfully the
late rich display of our glorious Emanuel's grace, in subdu-
ing by his word and Spirit multitudes of sinners to himself,
both in this and other lands.       may he go on conquer-      '



ing and to conquer/ until he has subdued all things unto
himself!    Neither can I think but that the writing of a
history of the great things our Lord has done among us,
has a tendency to, and will, by the blessing of Grod ujion it,
excite generations yet unborn to praise his glorious name,
and thereby his honour will be advanced, and his triumphs
increased  .  Most gladly, therefore, do I comply witli your
request, and herewith send such an account as I can, of
what the Lord has done among us. But herein, as I must
be very general, having never made any memorandums in
writing of the Lord's work here, so I trust I shall be strictly
true, for the Lord hates a false witness.
   '' This place lies southwest from New York, and is dis-
tant from it about fifty miles.  It was the first in the East
Jersey, on the west side of the llaritan river, which wag
settled with a gospel ministry.      This was owing, under
 God, to the agency of some Scotch people that came to it;
 among whom there was none so painful in this blessed un-
          (254)
                      APPENDIX.                           255

dertaking as one Walter Kcr, who, in the year 1G85, for
his faithful ami conscientious adherence to God and
                                                         his

truth, as professed by the Church of Scotland, was there
apprehended and sent to this country, under a sentence of
perpetual banishment.     By which it appears that the devil
and  his instruments  lost their aim in sending him from
home, where it is unlikely he could ever have been so ser-
viceable to Christ's kingdom as he has been here.
                                                      He is
                                                         old
yet alive, and blessed be God, he" is flourishing in his
age, being in his 88th year.
   "But to return; the public       means of grace dispensed
here were at first, for a season, too much like a
                                                  miscarrying
womb and dry breasts, so that the major part of the con-
wref'ation could not be said to have so much as a name
                                                            to

five*!^ Family prayer was unpractised by all, a very few ex-
                                                     that the
cepted ; ignorance so overshadowed their minds,
doctrine of the new birth, when clearly explained,
                                                     and pow-
                                                       to salva-
erfully pressed upon them, as absolutely necessary
      (by  that faithful  preacher  of God's  word,_ Mr.  Theo-
tion
                                                            and
dorus Jacobus Frelinghuysen, a Low Dutch minister,
some other English ministers who were occasionally
                                                          here,)
                                                     preachers,
was made a common game of; so that not only the
                                                 derision neto-
but professors of that truth, were called in
lorn, and looked upon as holders forth of some
                                                       new and
false doctrine.   And,   indeed, their practice was  as  bad as
their principles, viz. loose and profane.
                                                        them,
    <'
      In the year 1729, their minister removed from
            were so grievously divided among  themselves, that
 and  they
 it appeared improbable they
                               would ever agree in the settle-
 ment of   another.   In this miserable, helpless, and almost
 hopeless condition they lay, and few among
                                               them had either
                                                wretched circum-
 eyes to see, or hearts to bewail, their woful,
 stances.    Thus they seemed to be cast out, as the prophet
                                                of his book, and
 Ezekiel represents it in the IGth chapter
 5th verse.    But the Lord, who is rich in mercy, of his un-
 expected and unmerited love, passed by them
                                                   lying in their
                                           since that day. Live;
 blood, and said unto many of them
 and live they shall to all eternity.
     « About this time, my dear brother John (who is now
                                                 the sacred min-
  with Jesus) was licensed as a candidate for
  istry, a youth whom the Author
                                      of every good gift had un-
                                                          him ap-
  commonly furnished for that important trust. To
256                    APPENDIX.
plication was made by some of the congregation, entreating
that he would supply them for a time, to which, with the
leave of the Presbytery, he x3onsented.   But ere he went,
he often told me, that he was heartily sorry he had engaged
to go among them, for it seemed to him that they were a
people whom Grod had given up for their abuse of the gos-
pel.   But the Lord's thoughts are not our thoughts, nor
his ways our ways, for when he had preached four or five
Sabbaths in the place, which was the whole time he tarried
among them at first, the Lord so blessed his labours, engag-
ing people to attend to the things which were spoken, and
in stirring them up to search the Scriptures whether these
things were so or not, and withal enabling him to preach to
them with such uncommon freedom and earnestness, that he
told me he was fully persuaded Christ Jesus had a large har-
vest to bring home there ; so that, though they were a poor
broken people, yet if they called him, he would settle among
them, albeit he should be put to beg his bread by so doing.
April the 15th. 1730, the congregation unanimously called
him; which he accepting of, was ordained the 19th. of No-
vember following, and continued with them until April 23d,
1732, and was then translated to glory.
   '^ During this short time his labours were greatly blessed,


so that the place of public worship was usually crowded
with people of all ranks and orders, as well as professions,
that obtained in that part of the country, and they seemed to
hear generally as for their lives ; yea, such as were wont to
go to those places for their diversion, viz. to hear news or
speak to their tradesmen, &c., even on the Lord's day, as
they themselves have since confessed, were taken in the gos-
pel net.    A solemn awe of God's majesty possessed many,
so that they behaved themselves as at his bar while in his
house.     Many tears were usually shed when he preached,
and sometimes the body of the congregation was moved or
afi'ected.  I can say, and let the Lord alone have the glory
of it, that I have seen both minister and people wet with
their tears, as with a bedewing rain.   It was no uncommon
thing to see persons in the time of hearing, sobbing as if
their hearts would break, but without any public outcry,
and some have been carried out of the assembly (being over-
come) as if they had been dead.
    "Keligiou was then the general subject of discourse,
                       APPENDIX.                          257

though they did not all approve the power of it. The holy
Bible was searched by people on both sides of the question,
and knowledge surprisingly increased. The terror of God full
generally upon the inhabitants of this place, so that wicked-
ness as ashamed in a great measure hid itself; frolicking,
dancing, horse-racing, with other profane meetings, were
broken up. Some of the jolly companions of both sexes were
constrained by their consciences to meet together, the men by
themselves, and the women by themselves, to confess pri-
vately their abominations before God, and beg the pardon
of them.
   " Before my brother's death, by reason of his -bodily
weakness, and inability on that account to officiate publicly,
I preached here about six months     ;in which time many
came inquiring what they should do to be saved, and some
to tell what the Lord had done for their souls.       But the
blessing on his labours to the conviction and conversion of
souls   was more discernible some months      after his death,
than at any time in his life. Almost in every neighbourhood, I
cannot say in every house, there were sin-sick souls longing
for and seeking after the dear physician, Jesus Christ;
several of whom, I no ways doubt, have since that time sin-
cerely closed with him, and are healed ; glory, glory to his
holy name be given, for ever and ever. Amen     !


   ** Some time after my brother's decease, the
                                                  congregation
called me to labour among them statedly, which I accepted,
and was ordained October 25th, 1733. Thus my Lord sent
me to reap that on which I had bestowed but little labour.
May this consideration be blessed to make me thankful and
humble while I live.
   " I must further declare, to the honour of God, that he
has not yet left us, although awfully prOvoked by our cry-
ing crimes but ever since that more remarkable outpouring
            ;


of his Spirit has continued to bless his own ordinances, to
the convincion, conversion and consolation of precious souls,
so that every year some, more or less, have been in a judg-
ment of charity added (savingly) to his mystical body to  ;


his holy name be all the glory.  In the meantime, I would
have it observed, that two or three years last past have
afforded fewer instances of this kind than formerly. How-
ever, through grace   some have been      lately awakened who
are even   now seeking Jesus sorrowing.     What the number
258                        APPENDIX.
is   of those   who have   tasted the   sweet fruits of the Ke-
deemei-'s pm-chase in a saving manner, in this congregation,
I cannot tell.   It is my comfort that the Lord will reckon
them, for he knows who are his ; and indeed none but the
omniscient Grod is equal to the difficult province of deter-
mining certainly concerning the internal states of men. Yet
I may be bold to say, that to all appearance, both old and
young, males and females, have been renewed, though none
so young as I have heard of in some other places.        Some
negroes, I trust, are made free in Christ, and more seem to
be unfeignedly seeking after it.  But after all that the Lord
has been pleased to do among us, I am persuaded that the
greater number by far are yet in the gall of bitterness and
bond of iniquity. "This makes me sometimes ready to wish
that I had in the wilderness the lodging-place of a way-
faring man, that I    might leave my people and go from
them ; or rather that my head were waters, and mine eyes
a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for
them   ! Such as have been converted were every one of
them prepared for it by a sharp law-work of conviction, dis-
covering to them in a heart-affecting manner their sinfulness
both by nature and practice, as well as their liableness to
damnation for their original and actual transgressions.
Neither could they see any way in themselves by which
they could escape the Divine vengeance, for that their whole
life past was not only a continued act of rebellion against
Grod, but their present endeavours to better it, such as
prayers, &c., were so imperfect that they could not endure
them, and much less they concluded would a holy God.
They all confessed the justice of Grod in their eternal per-
dition, and thus have been shut up to the blessed necessity
of seeking relief by faith in Christ alone. It would be end-
less to mention the evils they complained of, viz., ignorance,
unbelief, hardness of heart, hatred      against God, his laws
and people, worldliness, wandering of heart in duty, pride,
sensuality, sloth, &c.   With what grief, shatue, and self-
loathing have I heard them bewail their loss of time, and
neglect of the great gospel salvation. Those that were com-
municants before their awakening, have with trembling de-
clared that their unworthy partaking grieved them more
than anything ever they did, for hereby they had as it were
murdered the Lord. It is almost incredible to relate the
                         APPENDIX.                       259

indignation that such awakened sinners expressed against
themselves, on the account of their sinfuhiesg.   They looked
upon themselves to be mere monsters of nature, and that
none were worse, if any so bad. Others signified that they
could not find their pictures out of hell, and that they were
just fit companions for the damned, and none else.      Let it
be here noted, that some who have expressed themselves in
the manner I have mentioned, were before taken for believ-
ers both by themselves and others, being sober and regular
in their walk.
  *' The sorrows of the convinced were not all alike, either
in degree or continuance.    Some have not thought it possi-
ble for them to be saved, if God would vindicate the honour
of his justice ; but these thoughts continued not long at a
time, blessed be God.    Others thought it was possible, but
not very probable, because of their vileness.   The greatest
degree of hope which any had, under a conviction that issued
well, was a may-be ; peradventure, or may-be, God will have
                     '



mercy on me,' said the sinner. Some, in coming to Jesus,
have been much rent with blasphemous and other horrible
temptations, which have turned their moisture into the
drought of summer, who now through pure grace serve
God without such distractions, in gladness and singleness of
heart.   The conviction of some has been instantaneous ; by
the Holy Spirit's applying the law to the conscience, and
discovering to the eye of the understanding, as it were, all
their heart deceits very speedily, by which they have been
stabbed as with a sword.    But the conviction of others has
been in a more progressive way. They have had discovered
to them one abomination after another in life, and from
thence were led to behold the fountain of all corruption
in the heart ; and thus they were constrained to despair of
life by the law, and consequently to flee to Jesus as the
only door of hope, and so rest entirely on his merit for sal-
vation.
  " After the aforesaid sorrowful    exercises, such as were
reconciled to God have been blessed with the Spirit of adop-
tion, enabling them to cry Abba, Father.     But some have
had greater degrees of consolation than others, in proportion
to the clearness of the evidences of their sonship.      The
Lord has drawn some out of the horrible pit of distress and
darkness, and brought them into the light of his countenance.
260                    APPENDIX.
He has filled their hearts with joy, and their mouths -with
praises ; yea, giyen them the full assurance of faith.  Others
have been brought to peace in believing, but have not had
so great a plerophory of joy, yet they go on in a religious
course, trusting in the Lord. The way they have been com-
forted is either by the application of some particular promise
of holy Scripture, or by a soul-affecting view of the way of
salvation by Christ, as free, without money and without
price.   They were enabled to behold the valuable mercies
of the covenant of grace, freely tendered to the vilest trans-
gressors, that were poor in their own eyes, sin-sick, weary
and wounded, together with the ability and willingness of
the Lord Jesus to relieve them from all the evils they either
feared or felt.   With this way of salvation their souls were
well pleased, and thereupon have ventured their case into
his hands, expecting help from him only who has given
them both peace and rest; yea, filled some of them with joy
unspeakable and full of glory.    I remember not of any that
received their first comforts otherwise.   Some few have re-
tained their confidence in Clod ever since, without any con-
siderable questionings of their state, although they have not
always tasted the comforts of it. But the most by far, have
questioned all, and doubted it was a delusion.     This I sup-
pose is generally owing to the remains of corruption, which
blot the evidences of grace in good men, so that they can
hardly read them, and particularly to the awful sin of unbe-
lief 3 together with the prevalence of a legal spirit, which
presses them to perfect holiness on pain of death, and because
they cannot obtain that, they conclude they are unsauctified,
and have no right to Christ. I might add the ignorance of
sanctification ; they seem to think that in the justified sin is
killed in its being, as well as governing power ; and there-
fore, because they feel their old sins sometimes stirring in
them, they conclude that all is wrong ; nay, although they
hate the doctrine of perfection as held by some, yet because
they are not perfect they think they have no grace. But
however distressing it is to them to feel their imperfections,
it helps to persuade me that they are regenerate, else it

would not be so ; sin would not be their chief burden in a
general way
  *' However, our Lord, who comforts those
                                           that are cast
down, even the Wonderful Counsellor, teaches them that
       J              APPENDIX.                              2G1

be not only saves those who have been sinners before
conversion, but even such as after       it find   a law in their
members warring against the law of their minds, which
too often causes them to do the things they would not
and enables them to reflect upon what they have and
do daily experience, and compare it with the evidences
of grace in the word of God.          The blessed Grod does
likewise give them renewed tastes of his love, even after
missteps; and thus they are established in faith and
hope, so that they have a prevailing persuasion of their
interest in Christ, except it be in times of desertion and
temptation, with which some are more exercised than
others, for reasons best known to a sovereign God.
   " Doubtless, sir, you will desire to know what effects
this work produces on the minds and manners of its
subjects.   I answer, they are not only made to know, but
heartily to approve of, the great doctrines of the gospel,
which they were before either ignorant, of or averse to, (at
least some of them) so that they do harmonize sweetly
in exalting free, special, and sovereign grace, through
the Redeemer Jesus Christ, being willing to glory only in
the Lord, who has loved them and given himself for them,
an offering and a sacrifice of a sweet-smelling savour.
  ''
     I cannot express with what satisfaction I have heard
them speak of the new covenant method of salvation.
They have spoken with such affection and clearness as
I have thought was sufficient to convince an atheist that
the Lord was their teaclier.
   ,                              The alteration in some,
from almost gross ignorance to such clear gospel light,
and in others from such corrupt principles as the Papists
and Quakers hold, to the believing acknowledgment of
the truth, none but he that made the understanding could
effect. They approve of the law of God after the in-
ward man, as holy, just and good, and prize it above
gold, yea, much fine gold.      They judge it their duty
as well as privilege to wait on God in all the ordinances
of his own institution, although they expect to merit
nothing thereby.    A   reverence for God's commanding
authority, and gratitude   for    his  conspire to incite
                                        love,
and constrain them to      a        unfeigned, universal
                                 willing,              .



and unfainting obedience to his laws; yet they declare
that in everything they come sadly short of what they
2G2                    APPENDIX.
ought to do, and bitterly bewail their defects.           But
blessed be Grod, they are not discouraged in their endeavours
to reach forward, if by any means they may apprehend that
for which they are apprehended of Grod ; and in all things
they acknowledge that they ought to look to Jesus as the
author and finisher of faith, whose alone it is to work
all good in them and for them, to whom be glory for ever.
They are not unmolested in their way by enemies, both
from within and from without. Yet they profess that
the comforts which they receive do more than compen-
sate all their labour, were there no good to be expected
hereafter ; and surely, as the psalmist observes, ' in keeping
God's commands thei-e is a great reward.' But to proceed     :


   "They have not all made alike proficiency in the Chris-
tian course, neither are they all equal in religious en-
deavours, nor any at all times alike lively.         They are
sometimes obstructed in their religious progress by cold-
ness and deadness  ;  but this the blessed Jesus removes
at times, by the influence of his Holy Spirit, then, then,
their hearts are enlarged, and they run the sweet way of
God's commandments with alacrity and delight ; they love
all such as they have reason to think, from their principles,
experience and practice, are truly godly, though they differ
from them in sentiment in lesser things, and look on them
to be the excellent of the earth.    They rejoice in Zion's
prosperity, glorifying God on that account, and feel a
sympathy in her sorrows. They do prefer one another
before themselves in love, except under temptation, which
they are ready to confess and bewail, when they are
themselves generally accounting that they are the meanest
of the family of God, and unworthy of the blessing; yea,
the most so of any living, all things considered.      In a
word the sapless formalist is become spiritual in his
conversation ; the proud and haughty are made humble
and afiable; the wanton and vile, sober and temperate;
the swearer honours that venerable name he was wont
to profane, and blesses, instead of cursing ; the sabbath-
breaker is brought to be a strict observer of holy time;
the worldling now seeks treasures in the heavens ; the
extortioner now deals justly, and the formerly malicious
forgives injuries; the praycrless are earnest and inces-
sant in acts of devotion, and the sneaking self-seeker
                         APPENDIX.                           263

endeavours   the   advancement of God's     glory,   and the
salvation of immortal souls.
   " Through Grod's mercy we have been quite free from
enthusiasm ; our people have followed the holy law of
God, the sure word of prophecy, and not the impulses
of their own minds.    There have not been, that I know
of, among us, any visions, except such as are by faith,
namely, clear and affecting views of the new and living
way to the Father through his dear Son Jesus Christ nor  ;

any revelations but what have been long since written
in the sacred volume ; nor any trances but such as all
men now Jiving shall meet with, for it is appointed for
all men once to die.
   " It may not be amiss to inform you, that many who
have been awakened, and seemed for a time to set out for
Zion, are turned back.   Yea, of those who have been es-
teemed converts, some have made shipwreck of faith and a
good conscience ; though, glory to God, there have not
been many such, yet some of them who have thus awfully
apostatized were highly esteemed in the church.  By this,
our good and gracious God has given check to too high an
esteem of our own judgment concerning the spiritual states
of others, (an evil which is too common among young con-
verts) and awfully warned all that stand to take heed lest
they fall.   Many, I have cause to fear, have been hardened
in their impieties and unreasonable prejudices against vital
religion, by the backslidings of some professors.   Woe to
                                                     '



the world, because of oifences !'   But in the mean time,
blessed be God, wisdom is and will be justified of her
children.
   " This, sir, is as particular an account as I can at pre-
sent give of the Lord's work in this place.     If my Lord
will accept it as a testimony for him, it will be a greater
honour than ever I deserved. I need your prayers, and
earnestly desire them.     beg of God that I may be faith-
ful to the death, and wise to win souls. I am with all due
respects, yours in the dearest Jesus,   Wm. Tennent."
" Attestation to the j^^'ccedmff Account hy the Ruling
   Elders and Deacons of the Conyreyation vf Freehold.
  " We  the subscribers, Ruling Elders and Deacons of the
Presbyterian congregation of Freehold, having had perfect
264                   APPENDIX.
knowledge of the circumstances of this place, some of us
from the first settling of it, and others of a long time, do
give our testimony to the truth in general, of the above
letter of our Rev. pastor.   May the Lord make the same
of use for the carrying on his glorious work begun in these
lands, and make the name of the dearest Jesus glorious
from the rising to the setting sun.

       Walter Ker,              Robert Gumming,
       David Rhea,              John Henderson,
       William Ker,             Samuel Ker.
          Freehold, in New Jersey, October 11th; 1744."
               APPENDIX III.
             MK.   DICKINSON'S LETTER,
ADDRESSED TO THE REV. MR. FOXCROFT, OF LONDON.

                           "Elizabethtown, Aug. 23r?, 17-43.
   " In these towns, religion was in a very low state profes-
                                                        ;

sors generally lifeless, and the body of our people careless,
carnal and secure, till some time in August, 1739, the sum-
mer before Mr. Whitpfield came first into these parts, when
there was a remarkable revival at Newark, especially among
the rising generation ;   many of whom were now brought
under convictions, and instead of frequenting vain company
as usual, were flocking to their minister with that important
inquiry, ' what shall we do to be saved ?'    This concern in-
creased for a considerable time among the young (though
not wholly confined to them), and in November, December,
and .January following, it became more remarkable as well
as more general. There was an apparent reformation among
the youth of the town     ; their customary tavern-haunting,
frolicking, and other youthful extravagancies were now laid
aside ; a new face of things appeared in the town   ; all occa-
sions of religious conversation were improved with delight
a seriousness, solemnity, and devout attention appeared in
their public assemblies, and a solemn concern about their
eternal welfare was visible in the very countenances of many.
This revival of religion was chiefly observable among the
younger people till the following March, when the whole
town in general was bi'ought under an uncommon concern
about their eternal interests,, and the congregation appeared
universally aff"ected under some sermons that were then
preached to them and there is good reason to conclude that
                   ;


tliei-e was a considerable number who experienced a saving

chinge about that time.         The summer following, this
awakening concern .sensibly abated, though it did not wholly
die away ;   and nothing^ remarkable occurred till February,
        23                                         (205)
266                   APPENDIX.
1740-41, when they were again visited with the special and
manifest effusions of the Spirit of God.   A  plain, familiar
sermon then preached, without any peculiar terror, fervour,
or aifectionate manner of address, was set home with power.
Many were brought to see and feel that till then they had
no more than a name to live ; and professors in general were
put upon serious and solemn inquiries into the foundation of
their hope.    There seemed to be very few in the whole con-
gregation but who felt more or less the power of Grod at this
happy season, though the greatest concern now appeared
among the rising generation. There is good reason to con-
clude that there were a greater number now brought home
to Christ than in the former gracious visitation.     It was
remarkable at this season that as sinners were generally
under an awakening, distressing sense of their guilt and
danger, so the children of God were greatly refreshed and
comforted; their souls were magnifying the Lord, and re-
joicing in God their Saviour, while others, in distressing
agony, were crying out, ' Men and brethren, what shall we
do?'
   " In the summer following, this religious concern sensibly
decayed though the sincere converts now held fast their
        ;


profession without wavering, yet there were too many who
had been under convictions that grew careless and secure
and all endeavours proved ineffectual to give new life to
their former solicitude about their eternal welfare.    What
seemed greatly to contribute to this (now growing) security
among these, was the pride, false and rash zeal, and censo-
riousness, which appeared among some few at this time
who made high pretences to religion. This opened the
mouths of many against the whole work, and raised that
opposition which was not before heard of; almost every
body seeming to acknowledge the finger of God in these
wonderful appearances, till this handle was given to their
opposition.  And the dreadful scandals of Mr. C      ,  which
came to light about tliis time, proved a means to still fur-
ther harden many in their declension and apostacy.       That
unhappy gentleman having made so high pretensions to ex-
traordinary piety and zeal, his scandals gave the deeper
wound to vital and experimental godliness. Thus, sir, I
have faithfully given you a narrative, in some brief and
general hints, of the late revival of religion at Newark, and
                      APPENDIX.                         267

shall now proceed to give you a brief view of the like mani-
festations of the Divine grace at Elizabethtown.
   " The Rev. Mr. Whitefield preached a sermon here in the
fall of the year 1739, to a numerous and attentive auditory
but I could observe no further influence upon our people by
that address, than a general thoughtfulness about religion,
and a promptitude to make the extraordinary zeal and dili-
gence of that gentleman the common and turning topic of
their conversation.   I do not know that there was any one
person brought under conviction, or any new and special
concern about their salvation by that sermon ; nor more
than one by any endeavours that were used with them that
fall, or the succeeding winter.   Though there was such a
shaking among the dry bones so near to us, as is above re-
presented, and we had continual accounts from Newark of
the growing distress among their people, (their young peo-
ple especially) our congregation remained yet secure and
careless, and could not be awakened out of their sleep. You
will easily conceive, that this must needs be an afflicting
and discouraging consideration to me ; that when from other
places we had the joyful news of so many flying to Christ
as a cloud, and as doves to their windows, I had yet cause
to complain that I laboured in vain, and spent my strength
for nought.     But, notwithstanding all these discom-agiug
appearances, I could not but entertain an uncommon con-
cern, particularly for the young people of my charge, dur-
ing that winter and the ensuing spring, which not only
animated my addresses to the throne of grace on their be-
half, but my endeavours to excite in them, if possible, some
afiiecting sense of their misery, danger, and necessity of a
Saviour.     To that end, there were frequent lectures ap-
pointed for the young people in particular, but without
any visible success, until some time in June, 1740, when
we had a remarkable manifestation of the Divine presence
with us.
   " Having at that time invited the young people to hear a
sermon, there was a numerous congregation convened, which
consisted chiefly of our youth, though there were many
others with them.   I preached to them a plain, practical
sermon, without any special liveliness or vigour, for I was
then in a remarkably dead and dull frame, till enlivened by
a sudden and deep impression, which visibly appeared upon
268                             APPENDIX.
the congregation in general.     There was no crying out or
falling down, as elsewhere has happened, but the inward
distress and concern of the audience discovered itself by
their tears, and by an audible sobbing and sighing in almost
all parts of the assembly.   There appeared such tokens of a
solemn and deep concern as I never before saw in any con-
gregation whatsoever.    From this time we heard no more of
our young people's meeting together for frolics and extrava-
gant diversions, as had been usual among them, but instead
thereof, private meetings for religious exercises were by
them set up in several parts of the town. All our oppor-
tunities of public worship were carefully and constantly at-
tended by our people in general, and a serious and solemn
attention to the ministry of the word was observable in
their very countenances.    Numbers were almost daily re-
pairing to me for assistance in their eternal concerns. There
were then probably more came to me in one day on that er-
rand, than usually in half a year's space before.* In a word,
the face of the congregation was quite altered, and religion
became the common subject of conversation among a great
part of the people.
   " Though this work was began among our young people,
and the most of those with whom we have reason to con-
clude it became effectual, were of the younger sort, yet there
were some who lived a careless and sensual life to an advanced
age, who were under convictions, and I hope savingly
brought home to Christ at this blessed time of the effusion
of his Holy Spirit.   Though there were so many brought
under conviction at once, we had very little appearance of
those irregular heats among u&, which are so loudly com-
plained of in some other parts of the land.        I do not re-
member to have heard of above two or three instances of
any thing of that nature, in this congregation, and those
were easily and speedily regulated. It is observable that
this work was substantially the same in all the different sub-
jects of it, though some passed through much gi-eater de-
grees of distress and terror than others 3 and this distress
  *" Agreeable to this, the Rev. Mr. Dickinson, in another letter, wrote
about that time to the Rev. Mr. Foxcroft, viz: September 4th, 1740, has
                               ' I have still the eomfortiiblc news to inform
these remarkable passages   :



you of, that there is yet a great revival of religion in these parts. I have
had more young people address mo for dij-ection in their spiritual concerns
within these three months than in thirty years before.'"
                        APPENDIX.                         269

Ijisted much longer with some than with others, and yet all
were brought under a deep sense of their sin, guilt, and
danger, and none that I know of obtained satisfying dis-
coveries of safety in Christ, till they were first brought to
despair of help from themselves or any of their own refuges,
and to see and feel that they lay at mercy.
   " We had no instances among us of such sudden conver-
sions as I have heard of elsewhere ; but our new converts
were all for a considerable time under a law work, before
they were brought to any satisfying views of their interest
in Christ and the favour of God.    Nor had we many instan-
ces of those cstatic, rapturous joys that were so frequent in
some other places. It was remarkable that they who were
formerly eminent for religion, were now quickened and re-
vived, and some of them had now such joyful manifestations
of God's love to their souls as they had never befoi'e expe-
rienced.   It was also remarkable that as this work began
among us in a time of greatest health and prosperity, so the
concern began sensibly to wear off in one of the greatest
mortalities that had ever been known in the town, which
makes it appear more evidently to be the work of God
himself.   Though there were some of those who were then
under special convictions that have worn off their impres-
sions and arc become secure and careless, yet I do not know
of any two persons, who gave reasonable hopes of a real
change at that time, but who have hitherto by their conver-
sation confirmed our hopes of their saving conversion to God.

   " I would be very cautious of any confident determinations
with respect to the conversion of particular persons ; but if
we may judge the tree by its fruits, which we have now had
so long a time to observe, we have reason to suppose, that
near about sixty persons have received a saving change in
this congregation only, and a number in the parish next ad-
 joining to us, though I dare not pretend to guess how many
since the beginning of this work.       The general concern
which, as I have observed, appeared upon the, face of the con-
gi'cgation has gradually worn off, and a great part of those
who came short of the effectual and saving influences of the
blessed Spirit, are returned to their former security and in-
sensibility, and again appear like a valley of dry bones.
Though there be yet a considerable number that do not
          23*
270                     APPENDIX.

give satisfying evidences of a regenerate state, who have not
worn off their serious impressions,
   ''
      I entreat your prayers for us, that he with whom is the
residue of the Spirit, would again revive his work among us,
and have compassion upon the many poor souls who are yet
in the paths of destruction and death.    And he pleased par-
ticularly to remember at the throne of grace.
                    Yours, &c.,
                         JONATHAN DICKINSON."
             APPENDIX lY.
           MR.     BEATTYS JOURNAL.
  The following account of a missionary tour of two
months, in company with the Rev. George Duffield, is
taken from Mr. Beatty's Journal, published in London,
in 1768.   It was, probably, never published in this
country.    It consists of eighty-two pages.

   "Being appointed by the Synod of New York and
Philadelphia to visit the frontier inhabitants, and likewise
to visit the Indians, in case it could be done with safety, to
know whether they were inclined to receive the gospel, I
set out on my journey, August 12th, 1766, accompanied by
Joseph Peepy, a Christian Indian, as an interpreter. After
arriving at Carlisle, Pennsylvania, I met with Mr. Duffield,
who was appointed to accompany me.
   On Monday, the 18th, after riding about six miles, we
came to the North Mountain, which is high and steep.
The day being warm, we were obliged to walk, or rather
climb it the greatest part of the way, so that when we
reached the top we were much fatigued.      After passing four
miles into Sherman's Valley, we lodged at night at Thomas
Ross's.
                    —
  " Tuesday \^th. Rode five miles, and preached to a
small auditory, notice not having been generally spread.
Lodged at Mr. Fergus's.
   " Wednesday '20th.   —
                        Crossed the Tuscarora mountain,
which is very high and difficult to pass. Preached after
crossing the mountain to a few people who were convened,
and lodged at the house of William Graham.
    " Thursday 21st.  —Mr. Duffield preached at a place
where a house of worship had been commenced, but was
                                                 (271)
272                    APPENDIX.
 discontinued on account of the war.         In this valley of
 Tuscarora, thirty miles long and six or seven in breadth, we
 found that the inhabitants had suffered much from the inva-
 sion of the Indians.   The number of families in the valley
about thirty-four.    Here we met with one Levi Hicks, who
had been a captive with the Indians from his youth. He
gave us some interesting information respecting the situation
of their towns, one hundred miles west of Fort Pitt.
                  —
    " Friday 22(i. Preached in the woods, as we have
hitherto done, north side of the Juniata.        Here also the
people had begun to build a house of worship, but left it
unfinished; probably for the same reason as the former.
Lodged at Captain Patterson's, where we remained on the
23d.    Here we agreed to separate for a season ; Mr. Duffield
to go into Path Valley, and I along the Juniata.
   " Monday 25^/i.—   Set out early from Captain Patterson's,
accompanied by our interpreter and Levi Hicks.
   " Tuesday 2Qth.—    Preached to a number of people in the
woods ; but the rain forced us to retreat into a small house.
   " Wednesday 27th    —   Baptized a child this morning
brought to my lodgings ; and preached to a small audience
eight miles further on, and baptized several children, and
lodged at John McMichael's.
   '' Mr.
           Duffield rejoined me on Friday the 29th.         In
Path Valley, twenty-three miles in length and about three
in breadth, he preached to a large congregation on the
Sabbath, and also preached on several following days.
                  —
   " Sahhatli "ilst. Preached at Bedford; I in the morning,
Mr. Duffield in the afternoon, to a large audience. Preached
also on Monday.
                        —
  " Tuesday, Sej^f. 2d. Crossed the Allegheny mountain
met with Benjamin Sutton, who had also been a captive
many years among the Indians. He had lived among the
Choctaws on the Mississippi. Told a long story about a
wild tribe of Indians.
   " Arrived at Fort Pitt on the 5th, and were kindly and
courteously treated by the officers of the garrison, who
furnished us with blankets and other necessaries. By invi-
tation I preached to the garrison, while Mr. Duffield
preached to the people of the town.
   " Mr. Gibson, a trader who sppaks the Indian language,
introduced us to an Indian called the White 3IingoC; the
                      APPENDIX.                          273

head man of his town.  He is one of the Six Nations, and
lives upon the Allegheny river, four miles from Fort Pitt.
We explained the design of our mission, and he agreed to
meet us with his people next day.     But he never went
home to notify them of the meeting.
                  —
   " Tuesdai/ *dth.  Having obtained all the information
respecting the Indians which we could, and having sought
divine direction, we set off for Kigaliuphega, an Indian
town, at the distance of one hundred and thirty miles. This
place was fixed on because it was central to the other Indian
towns, and because the king or head man of the Delawares
lived there, whom it was necessary to consult before we
attempted any thing among his people ; and also because we
were informed that, the Indians there were thinking some-
thing about religion.   Mr. Gibson furnished us with a letter
and string of wampum to introduce us. In the afternoon
Mr. Dufiicld preached to an attentive audience.    We   trust
that our pi'cachiug here has not been in vain.
                      —
   " Wednesday XOth. While we were much occupied in
preparing for our journey, a person came to us under deep
impressions, inquiring what he should do to be saved.       I
gave him a book, but he insisted on my writing something
for him, with which I complied.
   "Joseph, our interpreter, embraced every opportunity
of conversing with the Indians here.     He met with one
who appeared to be a sober man, and expressed much satis-
faction at our going out to teach the Indians.    We   heard
that this man, and about nineteen others, had separated
themselves from the other Indians, and worshipped God in
some way by themselves.
   " The commanding officer, who was disposed to do every-
thing in his power to favour our design, gave us a letter
and a string of wampum to the Indian chiefs.     We  crossed
the Allegheny river in a canoe, and swam our horses by
the side of it, and rode down the bank of the Ohio.   In the
night there fell a heavy rain, which wet us much.
   ^^ Friday      —
               V2th.  The morning dark and heavy, with
small rain.    Our clothes being wet last night, made our
condition very uncomfortable.      After travelling twelve
miles we came to the second Beaver river, which we crossed,
and proceeded six miles further to the thu-d Beaver river,
where we encamped, having but poor food for our horsea.
274                    APPENDIX.
Joseph, our interpreter, who went on before to hunt for us,
returned without anything, so that we had poor living for
ourselves as well as our horses.    However, we had some
bread, for which we had reason to be thankful.
   " Saturday 13<7i. —A     heavy rain from the northwest
came upon us before we had travelled far, from which we
sheltered ourselves around under the trees.
   ''
                   —
      Sabbath 14:th. We rested on the Sabbath, and sup-
posing this to be the first Sabbath ever kept in this wilder-
ness, we gave the place of our encampment the name of
Sabbath-Ridge.
   "  A  number of Indians who had been trading at Fort
Pitt came up with us, and wondered why we did not travel
that Sunday.    They had about one hundred gallons of rum
with them.    We explained the matter to them as well as
we could.
   '' The weather clearing up about three o'clock, P. M.,

we decamped, and set out with the Indians. Our inter-
preter, who had gone out to procure something for our
subsistence, returned late in the morning with a young deer
on his back, which we immediately divided; giving three
quarters to the three companies of Indians who travelled
with us, and reserved one quarter for ourselves. This was
a seasonable supply for them, as well as for us.
   '* Tuesday IGth.—   Entered more freely into conversation
with the Indians, our fellow travellers, and found them
more sociable and communicative than before. Their chief
man, especially, became more friendly when he found that we
were not Moravians, against whom he had taken up a preju-
dice. On this day after crossing several streams and extensive
savannahs, we arrived at Tuskalawa before night.          Our
fellow traveller, the chief, now became very friendly, invited
us to his house, where we were treated with great respect
and kindness. He brought us some green corn, which we
roasted, and some cucumbers, which we ate without salt, or
any other condiment. Having preserved a small portion of
the venison from the last night, we made some soup and gave
part to our host and his family.     Having prayed with the
family, our interpreter explaining the nature of the service,
we proceeded on our journey, and our kind host sent a
young man seven or eight miles to show us the way. As
we passed through the town we saw a number of Indians in
                        APPENDIX.                          275

a state of intoxication from the rura which they had brono-ht
from Fort Pitt, and when in this condition they appeared
very terrible, and behaved as mad men.
  " Thiirsdai/ ISfh.   —After   travelling twenty miles through
swamps and marshy grounds, we reached the town, at which
we arrived about 3 o'clock, P. M. At the first house which
we entered lived a widow woman, who was a near relative
of our interpreter. They had not seen each other for many
years, nor did he know that she lived here. Their meeting
was attended with an agreeable surprise to both of them,
which wo could not but consider a token for good. The
woman invited us to tarry with her, which kind offer we
gladly accepted.  She soon prepared for us a meal by cook-
ing some venison, and baking some cakes under the ashes,
according to their oustom.
   " We i)ow sent notice of our arrival to the king or head
man of the Delaware nation. In the mean time, our land-
lady furnished us with a little hut for ourselves, and spread
some skins for our bed, which was far better than what we
had been lately used to have.
  "Friday \%th.   —The king     sent us word that he was ready
to receive us.   We went, accordingly, to the Council House.
This house is a long building, with two fires in it, at a
proper distance, without any chimney or partition.   The
entrance is by two doors, one at each end. Over the door
was drawn the figure of a turtle, which is the ensign of the
tribe.   On each door was cut or engraved the face of an old
man, an emblem of the wisdom and gravity becoming those
who are senators. On each side was a platform or bed,
fifteen feet wide, extending the whole length of the house.
This served for sitting as well as sleeping, and was raised a
foot or so above the floor, and was covered with a handsome
mat made of rushes ; on the end of this bed the king had
his seat.
   " As soon as we entered, the king rose from his seat (no-
thing unusual,) and took us by the hand, and gave thanks
to the great Being above, the Creator and Preserver of all,
that we had opportunity of seeing each other in the wilder-
ness, and appeared truly glad on the occasion.      We were
then conducted to a seat near his majesty; the council being
seated on each side of the room. After sitting silent awhile,
according to their custom, I arose, and by Joseph, our in-
276                    APPENDIX.
terpreter, deliveredmy speech. It is an invariable rule
with the Indians, when they receive an address or speech,
not to return an immediate answer, but to take time to de-
liberate.
   " In the speech which I delivered, we gave them an ac-
count of the design of the Synod in commissioning us to
visit them, with the view of ascertaining whether they were
disposed to receive the Christian religion, and to have some
ministers sent among them.
   " In the evening an Indian and his sister, both advanced
in years, came to our house.     They had been in New Jer-
sey, in the time of the revival of religion among the Indians
there, and had received some good impressions from the
preaching of the Rev. David Brainerd.         They afterwards
 joined the Moravians, but seemed to haye, in a great mea-
sure, lost their serious impressions, but requested us to talk
to them on the subject of religion, which we did through
our interpreter.   We also prayed with them, and on taking
leave they seemed much affected.
   ^' Saturday,  20fh. —Five of the principal men came to
our hut, and after sitting an hour in silence, they returned
our string of wampum, saying they could not understand it.
We told them we were sorry they had not understood, and
would again explain it, which we accordingly did, and offered
to return again the wampum.     But they refused to receive
it, saying their great man, that is their king, could not un-

derstand it, when they pulled out a string of wampum, of
two single threads and one double, and proceeded to speak
on the single threads, one of which was white, the other
black and white.     They spoke as follows :


   " ' Our dear brethren, what you have said we are very
well pleased with, as far as we understand it.     But dear
brothers, when Wm. Johnson spoke with us some time ago,
and made a peace which is to be strong and for ever, he
told us not to regard what others might say to us ; that
the many people round about might be speaking of a great
many things ; yet we must look upon all these things as
when a dog sleeps and dreams of something, or something
disturbs him, and he rises hastily, and gives a bark or two,
but does not know any thing, or any reason why he barks.
Just so the people around may be saying some one thing,
and some another, but they are not to be regarded.'
                       APPENDIX.                         277

  "Again, on the double string they said ' George Crog-
han spake to us, that none should be regarded but what
William Johnson and he should say to us.' They then
brought out and showed a belt of wampum of friendship,
which Sir "William Johnson had given them.       The belt,
they told us, he held by one end and they by the other, and
when they had any thing to say, they must go along the
path marked on the belt. To this they added that they
believed there was a great God above, and desired to serve
him in the best manner they could ; that they thought of
him on lying down and rising up, and hoped he would look
upon them and do them good.
   " In the afternoon they sent us a belt of wampum and a
speech, the purport of which was to invite the Indians of
New Jersey, now under the care of the Rev. John Brainerd, to
come and settle at Quiahoga, a town seventy miles west of this
place, where, they said, they might have good hunting, and
might bring a minister with them and where all who wished
                                  ;

to attend on the religious instruction might come together.
   " As the next day was the Sabbath, we requested to know
whether they would give us a hearing, to which they gave
their assent, and exhorted us not to be discouraged at the
delay of receiving a full answer to our proposals, as they
always took time to deliberate.   Accordingly, one of their
chief men went around and gave notice at every house, that
we would preach to them at the council-house; and another
of their counsellors came to our hut to conduct us to the
place of meeting.  A  considerable number, both of men and
women, attended ; and I preached to them from the parable
of the prodigal son, (Luke xv.)     Good attention was paid,
and the women appeared really to lay to heart what they
heard.    After sermon we sat awhile with them, and asked
if it would be agreeable that we should speak to them again
in the afternoon j they said it would.
   "About three o'clock the people collected again, and
Mr. Duffield preached to them from 1 Cor. xv. 22, in
which he gave a plain narrative of all being dead in Adam,
and that all believers would be made alive in Christ. The
people appeared to be much engaged, and well pleased with
what they heard. Our interpreter remained with them
some time after the sermon, and brought us word that
the king and chief man were desirous that we should speak
again to them on the morrow, with which we were rejoiced.
        24
278                     APPENDIX.
   " In the evening of this day, which was observed by the
Indians like a Sabbath, several came to our hut and heard
us explain many things contained in the Bible.      Among
them was a young man named Neolin, who, for some time
past, had been in the habit of speaking to the Indians, and
reproving them for their wicked ways, and was the means
of reforming a number of them.        The answer of this
young man, when we inquired what put him in this
practice, partakes of the marvellous.    He said that six
years ago a man came and stood in his door, and told him
that all who followed bad ways would, after death, go to a
miserable place, but those who hated evil and did what
was right and pleasing to Grod would be taken to a happy
place.    We were informed by a trader, who knows this
man, that one of the means of reformation adopted by him,
was boiling bitter roots and causing people to drink the
decoction, which acted as an emetic, in order to cleanse
them from their sins.
   " Mr. Gibson had informed us that they had, in one
of their towns, a woman who had been taken prisoner
and he had written a letter to the king requesting him
to cause her to be restored to her friends, which he readily
promised that he would do.
   ''In the afternoon the king and four chief men of the
council  came and delivered a formal speech, in which they
acknowledged the evil of drunkenness, to which they were
addicted, but said the blame did not entirely belong to
them, but to the white men, who brought rum and sold it
to them.    They also complained of the conduct of the
whites in other respects.
   " In the evening, an old Indian, who had been with ug
before, came to our house, and informed us that there were
many here and in other places who were desirous of hearing
the gospel, and said they intended to go to Quiahaga, and
send for a minister to come and live among them to
instruct them.   This day was so much taken up in im-
portant conferences with the chief men that no opportunity
of preaching was aiforded.
                  —
   " Tuesday 22d. This day the head-men met in council,
where we attended, and I preached to them from Luke
xiv. 16.  In my discourse, I showed that there were rich
provisions made in the gospel for poor sinners   —the nature
                            APPENDIX.                       279

of these provisions, and why they were compared to a mar-
riage feast—  how men made excuses for not complying with
the invitations by the ministers      —
                                    and how some, by the
grace of God, were made willing       —
                                   and then concluded with
an exhortation to them to accept the gracious invitation.
  "A   solemn awe appeared on the face of the assembly. All
seemed attentive to the things which were spoken, and some
seemed   affected.       The interpreter was so much affected at
times that he could scarcely speak; and, indeed, I must
own that my own heart was warmed with the truths I deli-
vered, and with the effect they seemed to have on these
poor benighted heathen.    Blessed be God      Let all the
                                                  !



praise be to him     !    We
                        have reason to hope not one oppor-
tunity enjoyed here has been in vain, and we trust that the
good impressions which have been nuule will be permanent.
May the Lord grant that our hopes may not be disap-
pointed !"
  Before the brethren departed, they delivered a solemn
and interesting speech to the chiefs, which is recorded in
Mr. Beatty's journal.     This they accompanied agreeably to
the Indian custom with a string of wampum, which the
Indians received with apparent cordiality.   To one who had
learned to read a little, while among the English, they gave
a Bible ; to a woman, a small book, entitled, "       A
                                                    Compas-
sionate Address to the Christian world."
   From every appearance a door seemed to be opened to
introduce the gospel among these poor heathen. But the
missionaries had now to return home, and we do not find
that others followed them to improve the opportunity of
usefulness now afforded.




                               THE END.
                        Sem,na,,-Spee| L.brar,
    P„„celo. Theolc.cal




1   1012 01126 6196
