DOCUMENT_ID: christoffel1858
TITLE (as printed): Zwingli: or, The Rise of the Reformation in Switzerland. A Life of the Reformer, with Some Notices of His Time and Contemporaries
AUTHOR: Raget Christoffel (1810-1875); translated from the German
DATE: 1858 (English translation, Edinburgh: T. & T. Clark)
LANGUAGE: en (translated from German)
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/zwingliorriseof00chri
EDITION: 1858 English translation
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive OCR, djvu.txt); excerpt only (chapter "The Cathedral Foundation" / "The Cloisters", pp. 111-115), covering the founding of the Prophezei
TOTAL PAGES (this excerpt): pp. 111-115 of the printed book
WORD COUNT (this excerpt): ~1645
TRANSCRIPTION NOTE: Machine OCR transcription of a 19th-century scan, copied verbatim including OCR errors (e.g. long-s/ligature misreadings such as "tlie" for "the", "])rophesying" for "prophesying"). No spelling or wording corrected, per Procedure F. Page markers [[p. N]] inserted before each page break using the printed page number visible in the OCR running head/footer (left unmodified after the marker).

[[p. 111]]

My  advice  to  you  is,  to  let  it  rather  alone,  for  there  is  here  such  a  spirit  prevalent, 
that  wc  priests  can  scarce  walk  safely  about  the  town,  not  to  speak  of  going  a 


[[p. 112]]
112  THE  CATHEDRAL  FOUNDATION. 

Leut-priest  and  his  assistants.  Zwingli  and  his  friends  admitted 
that  the  complaints  made  against  the  institution  were  well- 
grounded,  and  moved  the  appointment  of  a  committee,  selected 
out  of  the  canons  themselves  and  the  Council,  to  deliberate  on  a 
reform,  now  become  absolutely  necessary.  This  committee  was 
appointed  in  September  1523,  and  its  suggestions  were  passed 
into  law  by  a  resolution  of  the  Council,  in  concurrence  with  the 
canons.  In  the  first  place,  certain  burdens  were  removed  from 
the  laity.  No  one  was  any  longer  to  be  forced  to  pay  for  the 
performance  of  baptism,  or  the  last  unction,  for  burials,  or  for 
grave-stones,  unless  the  same  were  expressly  desired  ;  no  one 
was  to  be  obliged  to  deliver  burial-candles,  while  it  stood  open  to 
all  to  light  them  at  their  own  cost ;  no  one  was  to  be  required  to 
pay  for  the  tolling  of  the  great  bell  in  the  Minster,  while,  if  they 
chose,  they  could  pay  for  the  tolling  of  the  bell  either  there  or  at 
the  other  churches.  The  Leut-priest  and  his  assistants  were  to 
be  duly  indemnified  for  the  loss  resulting  to  them  from  the  adop- 
tion of  these  measures,  out  of  the  tithes  and  rents.  It  was 
resolved  to  reduce  the  number  of  the  ecclesiastics,  (those  that 
died  off  were  not  to  be  replaced,)  but  a  sufficient  number  was  to 
be  maintained  for  the  due  performance  of  public  worship,  and 
the  cure  of  souls  in  the  Minster  itself,  and  its  filial  dependencies. 
Canons  and  chaplains,  who  were  henceforth  to  bear  the  common 
name  of  chaplains,  might,  on  condition  that  they  conducted  them- 
selves decently,  and  gave  no  offence  either  in  their  doctrine  or 
lives,  remain  in  the  undistiirbed  enjoyment  of  their  benefices; 
but  the  more  capable  of  them  were  to  be  employed,  with  compe- 
tent salaries,  as  the  ministers  of  parishes,  and  in  this  office  to 
conduct  themselves  with  all  fidelity  as  evangelical  pastors.  The 
amount  of  the  benefices  set  free  by  the  decease  of  canons  was  to 
be  applied  to  the  better  payment  of  the  teachers  in  the  founda- 
tion school,  or  the  Gymnasium,  in  order  that  better  qualified  men 
might  be  obtained  for  these  situations.  Zwingli  at  the  same  time 
called  into  life  an  altogether  new  institution  of  a  higher  order, 
specially  adapted  for  advancing  the  work  of  education  among  the 

falcon-himting,  and  springing  over  the  boor's  hedges.  "We  are  decried  as  use- 
less, good-for-nothing  parsons,  that  for  three  hundred  year.s,  till  the  time  of 
Luther  and  Zwingli,  have  deceived  the  people.  The  common  man  hopes  that 
the  number  of  priests  in  Zurich  will  be  reduced  to  six  or  ten  at  most." 


[[p. 113]]
THE  CATHEDRAL  FOUNDATION.  1  1 :{ 

candidates  for  the  priesthood,  for  affording  intellectual  and  spiri- 
tual exorci.se  to  tlie  canons,  and  promoting  edification  also  among 
the  people.  In  place  of  the  choir-service  in  the  morning,  heed- 
lessly mumbled  over  by  canons  and  chaplains,  a  new  sei"vice 
came  into  existence  on  the  19th  July  1525,  "  tlie  ])rophesying,"  or 
exposition  of  Scripture.  At  eight  o'clock,  all  the  town-parsons, 
predicants,  canons,  and  chaplains,  and  the  more  advanced  scholars, 
a.ssembled  in  the  choir  of  tlie  IMinster  church.  Zwiiigli  having 
delivered,  in  the  Latin  language,  the  prayer,  a  translation  of  which 
we  give  below,  the  exposition  was  begun  with  the  first  chapter 
of  the  First  Book  of  Moses,  in  tlu^  following  manner  :  A  scholar 
read  a  section  of  the  Latin  Translation  of  the  Bible  (the  Vulgate), 
and  the  teacher  commented  upon  it.  The  same  section  was  then 
read  in  the  Hebrew  Text,  then  in  the  Greek  Translation  (the  Sep- 
tuagint),  and  critically,  as  well  as  doctrinally  and  practically, 
explained  in  Latin.  At  first  Zwingli  himself  expounded  out  of  the 
original  text  and  the  Greek  Translation,  but  afterwards  a  special 
master  was  appointed  for  the  Hebrew,  first,  Ceporin,*  and  after 
his  early  death,  Pellican.-f-  This  exercise :{:  lasted  about  an  hour. 
In  the  meantime,  the  congTegation  had  assembled  to  hear  the  ser- 
mon at  nine.  An  ecclesiastic  mounted  the  pulpit,  and  delivered  the 
beautiful  prayer  composed  by  Zwingli :  "O  merciful  God,  heavenly 
Father !  since  Thy  "Word  is  a  light  to  our  feet  and  a  lamp  to  our  path, 
we  pray  Thee  that  Thou  woiddest,  through  Christ,  who  is  the  tme 
light  of  the  whole  world,  open  and  illuminate  our  minds,  clearly 
and  purely  to  understand  Thy  truth,  that  so  we  may  in  no  respect 
offend  Thy  High  ]\Iajesty,  through  our  Lord  and  Saviour,  Jesus 
Christ.  AmeiL"  The  section  of  Scripture  which  had  been  already 
treated  learnedly  was  then  expounded  in  a  manner  level  to  the 
capacities  of  the  congregation,  the  doctrines  and  exhortations  it 
contained  brought  home  to  the  heart,  and  the  whole  proceeding 
closed  with  prayer.  At  the  remaining  hours  the  scholars  of  this 
higher  institution  received  instructions  in  the  languages  and  the 

*  Ceporin  or  Weisendanger,  of  Dynhart,  honi  in  a  villapc  of  tlic  Canton 
Zurich,  wa.s  a  learned  and  well-meaning  young  man,  but  he  filled  the  office  only 
a  short  time,  from  April  till  20th  December,  when  he  died. 

t  Pellicanus  or  Kuersncr,  born  at  Kufart,  in  Elsas,  did  the  dutic.<s  from  1526 
till  1556,  and  rendered  important  service  to  the  cause  of  the  Hefonnation. 

t  Zwingli  callctl  this  scientific  and  didactic  exercise  "jjrophesying,"  in  reference 
to  the  proceedings  alluded  to  in  1  Cor.  xiv. 

H 


[[p. 114]]
114)  THE  CATHEDRAL  FOUNDATIOX. 

sciences  from  the  learned  men  who  were  appointed  in  the  room 
of  the  deceased  canons.  In  respect  of  the  idea  present  to  the 
mind  of  Zwingli  in  regard  to  this  higher  institution,  Myconius 
says  :  "  Zwingii  formed  the  plan  of  founding  an  institution  spe- 
cially intended  for  the  study  of  profane  learning  and  scientific 
theology,  and  I  doubt  not  that,  had  he  survived  the  full  execu- 
tion of  his  plan,  it  would  not  have  found  its  equal  an}^vhere." 
Yet  the  seed  sown  by  Zwingii  in  hope  sprung  up  even  after  he 
himself  had  left  the  scene ;  the  list  of  distinguished  individuals 
in  science,  in  the  Church  and  State,  which  Zurich  can  claim  as 
her  alumni  up  to  the  present  day,  is  the  rich  fruit  of  the  seed 
sown  by  our  Reformer. 

The  secular  authorit}^  and  judicature  which  the  Foundation 
had  hitherto  possessed  w^as  now  transferred  to  the  Council  and 
burghers.  The  revenues,  after  deduction  of  the  salaries  to  school- 
masters and  parsons,  were  applied  in  behalf  of  the  Hospital  for 
the  Poor.  The  change  in  this  Foundation  having  been  thus 
accomplished  in  a  maimer  so  salutaiy,  the  Foundation  of  the 
Frauen  JMinster,  in  which  Zwingli's  friend,  so  often  already  men- 
tioned. Dr.  Engelhard,  laboured  as  Leut-priest,  became  in  its  turn 
animated  ^ith  the  breath  of  reform.  This  Abbey  was  founded, 
as  Bullinger  states,  in  833,  by  King  Ludwig,  the  German,  whose 
daughter,  the  sainted  Hildegard,  was  the  first  Abbess.  At  the 
time  of  the  Reformation,  Catherine  vom  Zimmern,  (or  Zimbern), 
a  Suabian,  held  this  office.  On  the  4th  December  1524,  with 
the  consent  of  the  other  females  of  the  Foundation,  she  handed 
over  to  the  Council  all  its  lands,  revenues,  and  privileges,  on  the 
condition  that  "  an  honourable  Council  should  apply  the  same  to 
the  glory  of  God,  the  salvation  of  souls,  and  the  comfort  and  help 
of  the  poor."  The  females  belonging  to  the  Foundation  were 
secured  in  a  provision  for  life,  and  the  surplus  of  the  income  was 
applied  to  the  benefit  of  the  churches,  the  schools,  and  the  poor. 
Myconius,  wdio  had  been  forced  by  the  enemies  of  the  Gospel  to 
flee  from  Lucerne,  and  had  laboured  for  some  time  at  Einsiedeln, 
with  Geroldseck,  received  an  appointment  as  master  at  the  school 
of  the  Frauen  Minster.  Geroldseck,  when  he  saw  this  friend  of 
the  truth  also  leaving  Einsiedeln  for  Zurich,  1525,  was  oppressed 
with  a  sad  foreboding.  "  It  seemed  to  him  ominous,"  said  he  to  his 
departing  friend,  "that  all  who  acknowledge  Christ  gather  together 


[[p. 115]]
THE  CLOISTEKS.  1 1  ;> 

in  Zurich.  God  grant,"  said  ho,  "  it  may  not  he  topensh  there  toge- 
ther." Myconius,  besides  attending  his  duties  at  the  school,  used 
to  deliver  in  the  evening  instructive  and  edifying  addresses, 
instead  of  the  Vespers  formerly  read,  on  parts  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment, in  the  German  language,  and  at  these  meetings  he  had  a 
large  attendance  as  well  of  the  clergy  as  of  the  laity,  men  and 
women;  "for,"  says  Leonhard  Weiss,  "he  could  instruct  in  a 
manner  very  intelligible  and  entertaining." 

Thus  these  two  ancient  ecclesiastical  Foundations,  renovated 
by  the  breath  of  that  evangelical  spirit,  fanned  by  God  in  the 
breast  of  Zwingli,  became  institutions  that  have  eminently  pro- 
moted the  salvation  of  souls,  the  glory  of  Zurich,  and  the  Church 