DOCUMENT_ID: simpson1902
TITLE (as printed): Life of Ulrich Zwingli, the Swiss Patriot and Reformer
AUTHOR: Samuel Simpson (1868- )
DATE: [1902]
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/lifeofulrichzwin00simprich
EDITION: Fleming H. Revell Company, New York, [1902]
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive OCR, djvu.txt); excerpt only (pp. 126-128, on the Council of Zurich's 1523 reform decree requiring daily Bible exposition in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin)
TOTAL PAGES (this excerpt): pp. 126-128 of the printed book
WORD COUNT (this excerpt): ~606
TRANSCRIPTION NOTE: Machine OCR transcription, copied verbatim including OCR errors. No spelling or wording corrected, per Procedure F. Page markers [[p. N]] inserted before each page break using the printed page number visible in the OCR running head/footer.

[[p. 126]]

126  ULRICH    ZWINGLI 

had  authorized  him  to  offer  as  an  inducement,  he 
replied,  "  Everything  except  the  papal  chair."  * 
Rome  would  gladly  have  paid  any  price  to  gain 
Zwingli  as  an  advocate  and  defender,  but  un- 
fortunately for  her,  the  inducements  which  she 
held  out  served  only  to  alienate  the  more  his  af- 
fections. In  his  doctrinal  views  he  found  that 
every  day  he  was  getting  farther  and  farther  away 
from  the  accepted  standards  of  the  Church.  And 
when  in  addition  he  contemplated  the  ethics  of 
her  administration,  and  the  immorality  of  her 
favorite  representatives,  his  repugnance  for  her 
became  greater  even  than  Luther's. 

An  immediate  result  of  the  success  of  the  Zu- 
rich Reformers  was  to  embitter  still  more  the 
feelings  of  the  Romish  party.  At  Lucerne  their 
hostility  manifested  itself  in  deeds  of  public  vio- 
lence. Zwingli  was  dragged  in  effigy  to  a  scaf- 
fold and  executed  for  heresy.  A  number  of  Zu- 
richers  who  happened  to  be  in  Lucerne  at  the 
time  were  seized  and  roughly  handled  by  a  mob. 
Zwingli  when  told  of  this  disgraceful  occurrence 
expressed  confidence  that  Christ  would  never  de- 
sert his  followers.f 

No  sooner  was  the  Zurich  disputation  over 
than  Zwingli  undertook  the  preparation  of  an 


*Os.  Myc.  Vita  et  Obitu  Zw.,  X. 
tOp.  Zw.,  VII.,  p.  278. 


[[p. 127]]
ZWINGLI    AT    ZURICH— 1523-1526         127 

elaborate  commentary  on  the  sixty-seven  Arti- 
cles which  he  had  drafted  as  grounds  of  debate 
for  that  meeting.  The  work  progressed  slowly, 
and  not  until  the  middle  of  July  was  it  com- 
pleted. As  this  work  was  intended  for  the  people, 
it  was  written  in  the  vernacular,  and  in  style  and 
contents  it  was  admirably  suited  to  its  purpose.  It 
bears  the  title :  Exposition  and  Proof  of  the  Con- 
clusions or  Articles* 

In  Zurich  the  advantage  gained  by  the  Re- 
formers in  the  disputation  bore  immediate  fruit. 
The  Council  decreed  a  series  of  radical  reforms 
in  the  administration  and  worship  of  the  Great 
Minster.  It  was  enacted  that  all  the  clergy  of 
the  Minster  should  preach  the  word  of  God ;  that 
the  Bible  should  be  read  and  explained  daily  in 
three  languages — Hebrew,  Greek,  and  Latin; 
that  greater  attention  should  be  paid  to  educa- 
tion, and  that  candidates  for  the  ministry  should 
be  thoroughly  trained ;  that  the  number  of  priests 
supported  by  the  Great  Minster  should  be  grad- 
ually reduced,  and  that  all  holders  of  benefices 
should  be  required  to  perform  parish  duties ;  that 
the  use  of  candles  at  burials  was  not  obligatory; 
that  henceforth  fees  should  not  be  charged  for 
baptisms,  masses,  or  burials  without  monuments ; 


*Op.  Zw.,  I.,  pp.  169-424. 


[[p. 128]]
128  ULRICH    ZWINGLI 

and  that  all  surplus  funds  in  the  Minster  treasury 
should  be  distributed  to  the  poor  under  direction 
of  a  committee  appointed  for  that  purpose.* 

In  September  of  this  year  (1523)  Zwingli  pre- 
pared a  treatise  on  The  Canon  of  the  Mass, 