The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 


Talks  given  from  21/8/76  to  18/9/76 
Darshan  Diary 
28  Chapters 
Year  published:  1978 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #1 
Chapter  title:  None 

21  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608215 
ShortTitle:  PASSIOOl 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[A  sannyasin  says:  When  I'm  in  London  working,  I  am  very  involved  in  my  work  and  I 
feel  how  could  I  possibly  leave  it?  So  I'm  really  finding  things  difficult.] 

Your  work  is  good.  You  are  doing  good  work  there,  but  your  own  growth  is  far  more 
important  than  your  work.  It  is  good  work;  if  you  continue,  there  is  nothing  wrong  in  it. 
But  for  your  own  growth,  if  you  can  stay  a  little  longer,  it  will  be  helpful.  And  it  will  be 
helpful  for  the  work  also  in  the  end,  because  you  can  help  people  only  to  the  extent  you 
yourself  can  go  —  never  beyond  it.  You  can  take  people  only  so  far.  How  can  you  take 
them  beyond  you?  That's  impossible. 

So  if  you  grow,  your  work  also  grows  with  you.  Your  help  becomes  deeper,  goes  to  the 
very  root  of  problems,  and  does  not  only  solve  other  people's  problems,  but  gives  them  a 
new  direction,  a  new  meaning.  It  is  one  thing  to  solve  people's  problems.  Then  you  help 
them  to  become  adjusted  again.  You  make  them  normal  again.  You  make  them  capable 
of  being  in  the  work. 

But  to  help  them  to  grow  is  totally  different.  In  fact  to  help  them  to  grow  is  to  make  them 
abnormal.  To  help  them  to  grow  means  to  make  them  rebellious.  To  help  them  means  to 
take  them  beyond  the  society,  beyond  the  rotten  structure.  To  help  them  means  to  give 
them  the  hope  for  the  impossible.  They  live  surrounded  by  the  impossible.  They  never 
think  of  the  impossible. 

God  is  the  impossible.  Religion  itself  is  nothing  but  a  passion  for  the  impossible,  the 
passion  for  the  impossible. 

So  if  a  person  only  lives  with  the  possible,  he  lives  lukewarm.  He  lives  only  for  the 
name's  sake.  Yes,  he  may  be  a  good  citizen,  a  healthy  person,  doing  his  job,  not  creating 
any  trouble  for  his  family  or  the  society;  he  may  not  be  a  mischief-maker,  may  not  be  a 
troublesome  individual,  may  be  perfectly  adjusted  —  but  what  is  the  point?  One  simply 
lives  and  dies  and  never  knows  anything  beyond  that  which  goes  beyond  death. 

So  unless  you  can  help  a  person  to  have  a  glimpse  of  the  impossible,  and  you  create  a 
desire  in  him  to  long  for  the  impossible,  to  desire  the  impossible,  to  be  passionately, 
intensely  in  love  with  the  impossible,  you  have  not  helped.  If  you  can  create  this  desire, 


he  has  a  meaning.  He  starts  growing.  Then  his  growth  is  neither  economic  nor  political 
nor  social.  His  growth  is  religious.  His  growth  is  real.  He  is  neither  a  Christian  nor  a 
Hindu  nor  a  Mohammedan.  For  the  first  time  he  has  taken  possession  of  his  whole  being. 
He  is  himself,  and  nobody  else.. 

And  now  he  has  a  direction...  some  meaning  that  he  has  to  uncover,  some  destiny  that  he 
has  to  fulfill.  You  can  see  that  passion  glowing  around  him.  Only  that  passion  brings  real 
health,  otherwise  everything  in  the  world  is  just  ordinary.  It  simply  bores  one.  The  more 
intelligent  you  are,  the  more  you  will  feel  bored  with  the  world.  Only  stupid  people  are 
not  bored,  because  to  be  bored  one  needs  to  be  a  little  intelligent.  Buffaloes  are  not  bored, 
donkeys  are  not  bored;  stupid  people  are  not  bored.  Stupid  people  never  search  for 
anything.  They  simply  vegetate. 

The  impossible  never  opens  its  doors  to  them,  and  they  never  knock,  never  knock  at  the 
door  of  the  impossible.  If  you  talk  about  God,  they  will  laugh.  They  will  say  that  it  is 
impossible;  it  can't  be.  God  is  dead,  they  will  say.  It  never  existed.  They  are  simply  trying 
to  defend  themselves.  They  are  saying,  'Nothing  like  that  happens,  so  why  bother?  Just  be 
as  you  are.  Just  live  a  good  life.  Go  to  the  movies,  to  the  club,  see  the  TV,  have  a  few 
children,  a  so-called  happy  family,  and  just  wait  for  death...  or  sometimes  go  to  the 
church,  have  a  Sunday  visit.  Maybe  there  is  a  God,  so  keep  some  account  open  there  also; 
keep  some  bank  balance  in  the  other  world  also.  Maybe  —  who  knows?' 

They  go  to  the  church  as  part  of  their  calculating  mind,  as  part  of  their  cunningness,  but 
not  through  any  passion  to  search,  to  seek,  to  desire  to  know  the  truth,  with  no  desire  to 
know  themselves.  How  can  they  be  happy?  And  how  can  they  be  healthy?  How  can  they 
be  whole? 

So  if  you  really  want  to  help  them,  it  will  be  good  to  be  here  a  little  longer.  If  you  can  be 
here  for  one  or  two  years,  tremendous  possibilities  will  open.  Then  you  can  go  and  help 
them. 

[The  sannyasin  said  she  could  not  leave  her  patients  immediately,  but  she  could  come 
back  later.  Osho  suggested  when  she  returned  she  should  stay  longer.] 

I  say  one  or  two  years  because  then  you  will  be  completely  at  home  and  at  ease  here.  If 
you  are  here  for  three  months,  again  the  mind  continuously  works,  thinking  that  after 
three  months  you  have  to  go  and  do  this  and  that.  If  you  can  drop  that,  there  is  no  point  in 
planning  for  two  years.  Just  be  here  for  as  long  as  you  like,  but  then  don't  go  on  planning 
inside  the  mind  that  after  two  months  you  will  go.  Then  those  two  months  are  wasted. 
You  should  drop  the  idea  of  going. 

There  is  no  bondage  that  you  have  to  be  here  for  two  years.  I  say  two  years  because  two 
years  seems  to  be  exactly  the  time  beyond  which  people  don't  ordinarily  plan. 

[A  sannyasin  asked  Osho  about  her  father  who  is  an  artist,  and  had  been  diagnosed  as 
schizophrenic.] 

I  don't  think  it  is  schizophrenia,  and  I  don't  think  it  is  an  illness.  This  type  of  thing 
happens  many  times  to  talented  people.  A  talented  person  is  almost  always  in  trouble.  His 
very  talent  is  a  struggle.  A  talented  person  is  almost  always  somehow  abnormal,  not 
normal.  The  more  talent  you  have,  the  more  difficulties  there  will  be  in  your  life,  because 


the  mind  has  a  certain  capacity,  but  the  talent  can  be  more  than  the  capacity  of  the  mind. 
Then  you  cannot  contain  the  talent  in  your  mind;  the  strain  is  too  much. 

It  is  as  if  a  two  hundred  watt  current  is  running  in  a  one  hundred  watt  bulb.  Everything 
starts  going  crazy.  Meditation  can  be  of  tremendous  help  to  him. 

[The  sannyasin  answered:  He  jokes  about  it!] 

Nothing  to  be  worried  about.  People  almost  always  joke  about  something  to  which  they 
feel  a  certain  attraction.  Write  to  him  about  the  Nadabrahma  meditation.  It  will  be  very 
very  helpful.  It  will  be  very  soothing  to  his  mind. 

...he  can  do  it  lying  down.  And  when  you  go  home,  you  can  just  sit  by  his  side  and  do  it. 
Tell  him  to  participate. 

The  very  sound,  the  humming  sound,  is  very  relaxing,  very  soothing  to  the  inner  brain.  It 
will  be  very  helpful.  When  you  go,  remind  me  again,  and  I  will  give  a  special  meditation 
tor  him  too.  We  will  do  something...  don't  be  worried. 

[A  sannyasin  who  is  leaving  said:  Two  months  ago,  you  said  you  might  give  me  a  special 
healing  meditation.  I've  been  going  to  all  the  divine  healings  (that  happen  at  each 
monthly  camp)  and  they  did  much.] 

You  would  like  to  become  a  healer? 

...  You  will  be  able.  It  will  be  good  for  you.  It  will  be  good  for  others.  Healing  is  a 
beautiful  communication,  deeper  than  any  other  communication.  You  can  talk  verbally, 
you  can  say  to  somebody,  'I  love  you,'  but  words  are  just  words  empty.  If  you  can  simply 
shower  your  energy  on  the  other  person,  you  say  in  a  very  much  deeper  way  'I  love  you'. 
That  really  heals.  That's  what  I  mean  when  I  say  that  compassion  is  therapeutic. 

So  just  start...  and  there  is  no  need  to  be  worried  about  technique.  Whenever  vou  feel  that 
you  have  the  energy  to  share,  just  share.  A  few  things  to  remember....  The  person  should 
be  lying  down  whenever  you  heal,  because  when  a  person  is  in  a  lying  posture  there  is 
more  possibility  of  entering  his  deepest  core.  When  a  person  is  lying  down,  he  is  more 
like  a  child.  When  he  is  sitting,  he  is  less  like  a  child;  when  he  is  standing,  even  less  like 
a  child.  When  he  is  lying  down  he  feels  relaxed  automatically,  because  lying  down  is 
associated  with  sleep  and  with  childhood  when  he  was  not  capable  of  sitting,  not  capable 
of  standing.  So  sleep  and  childhood  —  these  two  things  are  deeply  associated  with  lying. 
So  let  the  person  lie  down  and  tell  him  to  relax.  The  best  way  to  help  him  to  relax  is  to 
tell  him  to  first  do  the  opposite  —  to  become  as  tense  as  possible,  to  tense  all  over  the 
body  so  that  he  deliberately  becomes  tense  and  every  fibre  of  the  body  is  stretched.  Tell 
him  to  come  to  almost  a  mad  climax  of  tension,  and  then  when  he  cannot  go  any  more, 
tell  him  suddenly  to  relax.  Then  he  will  fall  into  deep  relaxation. 

Ordinarily  if  you  say  to  somebody  to  relax,  he  listens  to  the  word,  he  tries,  but  nothing 
happens,  because  how  to  relax?  In  fact  if  you  say  to  a  person  to  relax  he  becomes  more 
tense  than  he  was  before  because  now  he  tries  to  relax.  He  does  not  know  what  to  do  — 
because  you  cannot  relax.  You  can  become  tense,  but  you  cannot  relax.  Relaxation  is  a 
by-product,  is  an  after-effect,  a  consequence  of  utmost  tension. 

So  tell  him  to  tense;  that  he  knows  how  to  do.  That  is  not  a  problem  —  everybody  knows 
how  to  become  tense.  Tell  him  that  he  is  facing  his  enemy  or  facing  death  and  he  has  to 


escape,  so  become  tense.  Tell  him  to  let  his  whole  body  become  tense,  vibrating  with 
tension,  and  then  suddenly  tell  him  to  relax.  With  this  created  tension,  he  can  relax  now. 
He  will  fall  into  deep  relaxation.  Just  two,  three  minutes  of  great  tension  will  help  him  to 
relax.  And  when  he  is  relaxing,  start  pouring  your  energy  on  him. 

It  is  good  not  to  touch  the  body.  In  the  beginning  it  is  good  not  to.  Just  keep  at  least  two 
inches  away  from  the  body,  because  if  you  touch  the  body  suddenly,  the  modern  mind 
has  become  afraid  of  touch  so  much  that  it  becomes  tense.  People  are  very  touchy  about 
touch.  If  you  touch  them  they  become  tense.  The  modern  mind  knows  only  one  touch, 
and  that  is  sexual.  All  touch  has  disappeared.  We  don't  touch  people  ordinarily. 

If  you  see  two  men  holding  hands,  you  think  they  are  gay,  queer  or  that  something  is 
wrong  with  them.  Foolish!  They  may  be  just  friends.  Nothing  is  wrong  in  touching  each 
other's  body,  but  two  men  touching  each  other  become  afraid.  You  feel  embarrassed  if 
somebody  embraces  you.  If  he  is  a  man  you  feel  embarrassed.  If  she  is  a  woman  you  feel 
sexually  aroused.  But  in  both  the  ways  touch  loses  security,  innocence. 

Even  fathers  and  mothers  don't  touch  and  cuddle  and  hug  their  children.  The  only  touch 
that  children  have  come  to  know  and  associate  with  is  when  the  father  becomes  angry 
and  hits  and  slaps.  That  is  the  only  touch.  So  when  you  touch  somebody,  you  touch 
wrong  associations  —  sexual,  homosexual,  or  somebody  slapping  and  the  other  becoming 
afraid,  scared,  defensive,  tense.  So  in  the  beginning,  never  touch. 

When  you  are  healing  a  person,  so  much  energy  is  pouring  out  that  if  you  touch,  it  will  be 
almost  as  if  you  are  touching  him  with  a  live  wire,  a  live  electric  wire  He  will  become  so 
afraid  that  his  doors  will  close  —  and  if  the  doors  are  closed,  you  can  go  on  showering 
and  nothing  will  happen.  Healing  is  possible  not  only  because  of  your  energy  —  it  is 
possible  only  when  your  energy  enters  the  other  person  and  becomes  his  energy.  If  it 
comes  up  to  the  door  and  returns,  no  healing  happens. 

That's  why  if  a  person  does  not  trust  you,  never  try  healing  —  never  try,  because  it  is  not 
possible.  If  a  person  has  doubts  about  you,  forget  about  him.  It  is  possible  only  in  deep 
trust,  and  if  you  try  on  persons  who  won't  trust  you,  you  will  become  unconfident  about 
your  own  energy.  If  you  fail  many  times,  then  by  and  by  you  will  think  'Nothing  is 
happening.  I  don't  have  the  energy.' 

In  fact  every  person  has  the  energy  to  heal.  It  is  something  natural.  It  is  not  that  a  few 
people  are  healers  and  others  are  not,  no.  Every  person  born  is  a  healer  but  has  forgotten 
the  capacity,  or  has  never  used  it,  or  has  used  it  in  wrong  associations  and  has  come  to 
feel  that  it  never  works. 

So  in  the  beginning  never  try  on  just  anyone.  It  is  a  very  tempting  thing,  because  people 
who  don't  believe  say,  'Okay,  now  try  on  us.  We  are  ready.  You  can  show  us  how  you 
can  heal.'  Never  make  it  an  argument,  because  that  will  be  very  destructive  to  you,  and 
when  the  person  is  not  receptive,  you  will  feel  very  tired.  When  the  energy  comes  back, 
unwelcomed,  unreceived,  and  falls  back  on  you,  you  will  feel  very  tired  because  you 
have  exhausted  your  energy  with  no  result,  with  no  fulfillment.  You  have  exhausted  the 
energy  but  it  has  not  been  creative. 

So  never  try  it  on  somebody  who  challenges  you.  It  is  not  a  challenge.  If  somebody  is 
ready  to  participate,  to  go  with  you,  then  it  is  a  beautiful  experience. 

So  in  the  beginning  never  touch.  When  the  person  is  relaxing  more  and  more  and  you 
feel...  and  I  am  saying  feel  —  not  that  you  think.  If  you  feel  an  urge  arises  to  touch  the 
person  —  for  example  he  has  a  stomach  ache  or  a  headache  or  something  and  you  feel  that 


just  touching  the  head  will  be  helpful  —  then  touch,  but  first  let  him  get  in  tune  with  you. 
First  just  give  an  energy  massage,  not  touching  the  body. 

Keep  about  two  inches  distance,  because  the  person's  body  aura  is  about  six  inches  away 
from  his  body.  Keep  about  two,  three  inches  away,  so  in  a  way  you  are  touching  his 
energy  aura.  You  are  not  touching  his  or  her  physical  body,  but  you  are  touching  his 
subtle  body  —  and  that's  enough.  For  the  energy  to  penetrate,  that's  enough.  You  have 
really  touched  him,  but  he  will  not  be  afraid  about  that.  When  you  feel  that  the  person  is 
participating  tremendously,  when  his  trust  is  immense  and  you  can  see  that  he  is  flowing 
with  you,  and  you  can  feel  that  your  energy  is  being  absorbed  —  it  is  not  rejected;  he  has 
become  like  a  sponge  and  is  soaking  it  up  —  then  you  can  touch.  Then  the  touch  becomes 
very  very  helpful;  then  it  becomes  a  pinpoint.  On  that  point  the  whole  energy  showers 
and  enters  deepest. 

After  each  healing  it  is  better  that  if  you  can  take  a  shower,  do  so.  If  it  is  not  possible, 
then  at  least  wash  your  hands  immediately  and  shake  them.  It  always  happens  that  when 
you  are  passing  your  energy  into  the  other  person,  his  or  her  energy  also  sometimes 
passes  into  you;  they  overlap.  Sometimes  the  person  can  be  very  very  strong,  even 
stronger  than  you.  Sometimes  the  person  may  not  be  strong,  but  his  illness  may  be  very 
strong,  so  those  vibrations  of  illness  can  enter  you  and  can  be  destructive.  They  can  make 
you  m,  tense.  Healing  is  good  but  not  at  your  own  cost,  because  then  it  is  foolish  and  you 
cannot  heal  much.  Sooner  or  later  you  will  become  ill,  badly  ill,  and  your  body  will  be 
confused  very  much. 

So  it  you  can  take  a  shower,  good.  If  it  is  not  possible,  then  just  wash  your  hands 
immediately.  Cold  water  is  very  good  —  it  helps  your  energy  to  shrink  back,  and  then  the 
contact  is  lost  from  any  influences,  impressions,  vibrations,  that  could  get  into  it.  Then 
shake  your  hands.  If  you  feel  sometimes  that  you  are  really  too  full  of  the  energy  of  the 
other  person,  jog,  jump.  Two  or  three  minutes  jogging  will  do.  Then  all  the  impressions 
and  vibrations  will  fall  away  from  you. 

Only  this  much...  and  you  will  be  able,  mm?  Good. 

[A  sannyasin  who  is  returning  to  the  west  says  she  is  afraid  about  meeting  her  old  friend 
who  is  a  marxist:  He  is  in  search  of  truth  and  I  too.  He  has  found  something  and  I  have 
found  something.  He  has  known  me  for  so  long  and  has  given  me  so  much  love...  ] 

I  know  ....  A  few  things  you  have  to  remember  if  you  want  to  help  anybody:  the  help  can 
only  be  indirect;  it  can  never  be  direct.  If  you  try  to  convince  him,  you  will  simply  create 
much  argument;  that  will  not  help.  He  will  become  more  defensive  and  egos  are  very 
argumentative. 

When  a  person  is  involved  too  much  in  something  like  marxism,  he  simply  lives  through 
the  intellect.  His  whole  training  is  of  the  mind.  From  the  very  beginning  he  has  a  negative 
belief  that  nothing  else  exists;  he  is  already  prejudiced.  It  is  very  difficult  to  bring  news  to 
him  that  something  that  he  has  always  believed  does  not  exist,  exists.  It  is  easier  for  him 
to  think  that  you  have  gone  mad  rather  than  to  think  that  he  has  always  been  wrong.  That 
is  not  easy. 

But  if  you  try  to  convince  him  intellectually  on  his  own  grounds,  you  will  not  be  able. 
First  he  will  become  defensive.  He  will  become  very  argumentative  —  and  when 
somebody  is  argumen-tative,  then  there  are  many  barriers  and  communication  is  lost. 


And  the  second  thing:  whatsoever  you  have  attained,  whatsoever  you  have  glimpsed  is 
something  beyond  the  mind.  It  is  something  of  the  heart,  something  concerned  with  love, 
and  you  cannot  propose  it  like  a  syllogism.  It  is  not  a  process  that  can  be  analysed.  It  is  an 
event  which  cannot  be  analysed...  a  simple  event.  It  is  not  a  continuity.  When  there  is  a 
process,  you  can  analyse  it.  And  marxists  are  very  efficient  in  analysing  processes.  Their 
whole  methodology  is  of  dialectics;  to  analyse  a  process  into  divisions  —  thesis, 
antithesis,  synthesis  —  very  simple. 

But  this  is  something  not  part  of  any  process,  because  the  innermost  being  is  not  a 
process  at  all.  It  is  already  perfect.  It  is  not  moving  towards  perfection  —  it  has  already 
arrived.  It  has  never  been  away.  It  has  never  gone  on  any  journey.  The  innermost  being  is 
absolutely  perfect,  and  when  it  is,  it  is  felt  as  an  event,  a  simple  event;  nothing  behind  it, 
nothing  ahead  of  it  —  an  atomic  event.  You  cannot  divide  it;  it  is  indivisible.  You  cannot 
argue  about  it.  You  cannot  manage  proofs  for  it;  you  cannot  collect  evidence  for  it.  You 
can  be  a  witness  but  in  a  very  indirect  way. 

So  remember  it,  otherwise  you  will  mess  up  the  whole  thing  and  you  will  not  be  able  to 
help  him.  It  is  very  possible  that  he  may  be  able  to  harm  you,  rather  than  you  being 
helpful  to  him.  So  be  alert,  because  you  carry  something  very  fragile.  A  marxist  is  like  a 
stone  a  rock,  and  you  are  flowering  like  a  flower.  The  clash  between  a  rock  and  a  flower 
is  never  going  to  destroy  the  rock.  The  flower  may  be  destroyed. 

So  it  is  good  not  to  be  a  victim  of  any  clash.  Avoid  clash.  The  flower  can  win,  but  the 
ways  of  the  flower  are  very  different.  The  way  is  not  a  direct  clash.  It  is  an  indirect 
persuasion.  What  I  mean  is  this  —  go  there  and  love  him  more  than  you  have  ever  loved 
him  before.  Don't  talk  about  what  has  happened  to  you.  Even  if  he  provokes  you,  avoid  it, 
laugh  about  it.  Say  it  is  all  nonsense,  madness,  and  that  he  will  not  be  interested  so  why 
waste  his  time. 

But  be  loving,  be  meditative,  move  in  grace.  Let  him  feel  it.  That  is  your  responsibility. 
Be  very  very  alert  so  he  can  feel  that  something  has  happened  to  you,  that  you  are  no 
more  the  same.  Bring  a  new  breeze  with  you.  Open  some  new  window.  Don't  argue  about 
the  window;  simply  open  it  and  leave  it  there.  He  will  become  curious.  You  just  have  to 
be  very  alert.  If  you  really  want  to  help  him,  you  have  to  be  very  watchful  not  to  be 
argumentative. 

In  fact  one  should  never  argue  about  religion.  And  certainly  never  argue  with  a 
communist,  because  it  is  useless,  it  is  pointless.  And  once  you  accept  his  categories,  you 
will  be  defeated  —  not  that  you  are  wrong,  but  your  experience  is  more  fragile.  Your 
experience  is  higher.  Your  experience  is  deeper.  When  you  bring  it  to  the  surface,  much 
of  it  is  lost.  It  can  never  be  brought  to  the  surface  whole  and  total  because  it  is  part  of 
your  inner  depth.  It  is  an  organic  part  to  your  inner  depth.  The  moment  you  bring  it  out, 
much  is  lost.  And  when  you  make  it  an  argument,  again  much  more  is  lost.  When  the 
other  tries  to  comprehend  it  through  his  logical  structures,  then  it  is  almost  murdered. 

This  is  the  way  to  butcher  a  truth  of  experience. 

So  laugh  more;  that  will  be  helpful.  That  will  be  the  argument.  Smile  more...  dance. 

Invite  him  to  dance,  and  dance  as  lovingly  as  you  can.  Go  in  trance  and  let  him  watch. 
Meditate  and  let  him  watch.  Meditate  in  your  room  and  leave  the  door  open  so  he 
becomes  curious  and  wants  to  see  what  is  happening. 

He  is  in  search  so  there  is  every  possibility  of  his  coming  towards  me,  but  all  depends  on 
you.  You  will  be  my  messenger  so  you  have  to  be  very  careful. 


The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #2 
Chapter  title:  None 

22  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608225 
ShortTitle:  PASSIO02 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[The  Tathata  group  was  present. 

A  group  member  says:  People  tell  me  that  their  first  impression  of  me  is  that  I'm  angry  or 
aggressive  or  detached,  and  usually  I'm  feeling  the  opposite. 

It  seems  that  usually  I'm  saying  one  thing  and  my  body  and  face  are  saying  something 
else.] 

How  do  you  yourself  feel?  Don't  be  bothered  much  by  what  others  say.  How  do  you  feel? 
If  you  don't  feel  that  there  is  any  problem,  then  there  is  no  problem.  So  watch  yourself  for 
at  least  two  weeks. 

When  you  are  feeling  sympathetic,  just  pay  attention  to  your  face,  your  facial  tensions, 
your  eyes,  your  hands,  your  posture,  your  tone,  the  way  you  are  talking,  how  you  are 
standing,  how  you  are  looking  at  the  person.  Just  watch;  an  inner  observation  for  two 
weeks.  If  you  feel  after  this  observation  that  yes,  there  is  something  contradictory  ....  You 
feel  loving  but  in  your  body  you  are  withdrawn;  you  wanted  to  show  your  happiness,  but 
you  simply  showed  your  sadness.  You  were  feeling  very  very  sympathetic,  but  your  total 
style  was  very  detached,  far  away,  as  if  you  don't  care.  You  have  to  watch.  You  cannot 
depend  on  others.  They  may  be  right,  they  may  not  be.  So  I'm  not  deciding  anything  right 
now. 

Be  absolutely  objective  about  it,  because  there  is  no  question  of  defending.  If  it  is  there, 
one  has  to  know  it  is  there  and  then  something  can  be  done.  It  can  be  dropped.  If  it  is  not 
there,  there  is  no  need  to  be  worried  about  it.  Simply  go  on  your  way,  and  what  others  say 
is  irrelevant.  But  don't  reject  them  outright. 

So  note  if  you  feel  any  dichotomy;  if  when  you  feel  something,  the  body  is  saying 
something  and  you  are  saying  something  else.  If  you  feel  this  split,  then  just  note  it  down 
-  in  many  types  of  moods.  You  are  feeling  happy  but  you  give  the  impression  to  the 
other  person  that  you  are  very  unhappy  or  bored.  You  are  listening  very  attentively  to  the 
person,  but  you  give  the  feeling  that  you  want  him  to  stop,  you  are  simply  bored. 

The  body  sometimes  goes  on  giving  indications  which  can  be  against  your  inner  feelings. 
Your  body  can  behave  separately.  It  can  become  an  automaton,  autonomous.  Then  the 
link  is  broken,  but  that  link  can  be  created  again.  So  for  two  weeks  just  watch...  and  it  is 
not  difficult.  When  you  are  showing  love  or  saying  that  you  love  a  person,  your  eyes 
should  become  radiant.  Your  eyes  should  show  the  light  that  comes  when  you  feel  love 
for  somebody.  If  your  eyes  go  on  looking  dead,  stone-dead  and  you  say  'I  love  you',  then 
something  inside  is  not  in  contact.  Then  you  are  speaking  two  languages  together. 


And  remember  always  that  the  bodily  language  is  more  important  than  what  you  say.  The 
other  person  will  not  listen  to  what  you  say.  The  other  person  will  listen  to  what  you  are. 
So  you  will  always  be  in  difficulty  because  you  will  think  that  you  were  loving,  so 
loving,  and  nobody  returns  your  love.  You  were  listening  intently,  but  others  feel  that  you 
were  feeling  bored.  If  there  is  such  a  situation,  it  has  to  be  mended.  But  first  watch,  and 
then  tell  me,  mm?  Good. 

[Another  group  member  said  that  someone  had  told  him  he  was  difficult  to  contact  and 
communicate  with:  I'm  always  trying  to  be  kind  and  open  to  people.  I  thought  I  was  open 
to  personal  relationships.  So  it  shocked  me  and  has  been  a  good  lesson.  I  just  don't  know 
what  to  do.] 

Just  wait.  Keep  in  mind  what  she  said.  In  the  next  group  also,  ask  people  their 
impressions  of  you,  and  afterwards,  remind  me  again. 

Sometimes  it  happens  that  a  person  who  always  tries  to  be  kind,  loving,  loses  contact, 
because  the  very  effort  to  be  always  loving  is  unnatural.  Sometimes  you  have  to  be  angry 
also.  That  may  be  the  cause.  People  who  are  always  good  become  a  little  closed  because 
they  are  always  trying  to  do  something  which  may  be  there,  which  may  not  be  there. 
Sometimes  it  is  there  —  then  it  is  okay  —  but  sometimes  it  is  not  there  and  you  still  force 
it;  then  you  lose  contact. 

So  one  just  has  to  be  real  —  then  there  is  communication.  Being  real  means  sometimes 
you  will  be  cruel  too,  not  Kind;  sometimes  you  will  hurt  and  sometimes  you  will  heal  too. 
Then  you  are  both  summer  and  winter,  both  good  and  bad;  you  are  open.  But  if  you  try  to 
be  just  good  always,  always  a  catholic  Christian,  then  it  is  difficult. 

But  watch  in  the  next  group  also  and  then  tell  me.  It  can  be  very  significant  and  can 
change  your  whole  mode  of  life. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I've  been  a  diplomat,  and  then  lately  I've  been  teaching  —  but  I've 
resigned  from  that. 

I've  been  thinking  I  might  study  something  like  massage  because  I  like  working  with  my 
hands,  and  I  know  it's  a  job  where  you  can  be  open  and  receptive.] 

It's  very  good.  To  do  something  with  the  hands  is  always  good.  Rather  than  to  be  a  head, 
it  is  always  good  to  be  hands.  It  will  make  you  more  alive  and  more  in  contact  with  life. 

It  will  make  you  more  grounded. 

Massage  is  perfectly  good.  It  is  better  than  to  be  a  diplomat.  It  is  very  very  good  to  forget 
all  about  that  nonsense.  Get  more  into  your  body.  Make  your  senses  more  alive.  See  more 
lovingly,  taste  more  lovingly,  touch  more  lovingly,  smell  more  lovingly.  Let  your  senses 
function  more  and  more.  Then  suddenly  you  will  see  the  energy  that  was.  moving  too 
much  in  the  head  is  now  well-divided  in  the  body. 

The  head  is  very  dictatorial.  It  goes  on  taking  energy  from  everywhere  and  is  a 
monopolist.  It  has  killed  the  senses.  The  head  is  taking  almost  eighty  percent  of  the 
energy,  and  only  twenty  percent  is  left  for  the  whole  body.  Of  course  the  whole  body 
suffers,  and  when  the  whole  body  suffers,  you  suffer,  because  you  can  only  be  happy 
when  you  are  functioning  as  a  whole,  as  an  organic  unity,  and  every  part  of  your  body 


and  being  is  getting  its  proportion;  not  more  than  that,  not  less  than  that.  Then  you 
function  in  a  rhythm.  You  have  a  harmony. 

Harmony,  happiness,  health  —  they  are  all  part  of  one  phenomenon,  and  that  is 
wholeness.  If  you  are  whole,  you  are  happy,  healthy,  harmonious. 

The  head  is  creating  a  disturbance.  People  have  lost  many  things.  People  cannot  smell. 
They  have  lost  the  capacity  to  smell. 

They  have  lost  the  capacity  to  taste.  They  can  only  hear  a  few  things.  They  have  lost  their 
ears.  People  don't  know  what  touch  really  is.  Their  skin  has  become  dead.  It  has  lost  the 
softness  and  receptivity.  So  the  head  thrives  like  an  Adolf  Hitler,  crushing  the  whole 
body.  The  head  becomes  bigger  and  bigger.  It  is  very  ridiculous.  Man  is  almost  like  a 
caricature  —  a  very  big  head  and  just  very  small  limbs,  hanging. 

So  bring  back  your  senses.  Do  anything  with  the  hands,  with  the  earth,  with  the  trees, 
with  the  rocks,  with  bodies,  with  people.  Do  anything  that  needs  not  much  thinking,  not 
much  intellectualisation.  And  enjoy.  Then  your  head  will  by  and  by  be  unburdened.  It 
will  be  good  for  the  head  too,  because  when  the  head  is  burdened  too  much,  it  thinks  — 
but  it  cannot  think.  How  can  a  worrying  mind  think?  For  thinking  you  need  clarity.  For 
thinking  you  need  a  non-tense  mind. 

It  will  look  like  a  paradox,  but  for  thinking  you  need  a  thoughtless  mind.  Then  you  can 
think  very  easily,  very  directly,  intensely.  Just  put  any  problem  before  yourself  and  your 
non-thinking  mind  starts  solving  it.  Then  you  have  intuition.  It  is  not  worry  —  just  insight. 
When  the  mind  is  burdened  too  much  with  thoughts,  you  think  too  much  but  to  no 
purpose.  It  comes  to  nothing;  there  is  nothing  in  the  head.  You  go  round  about,  round 
about;  you  make  much  noise,  but  the  end  result  is  zero. 

So  it  is  not  against  the  head  to  disperse  the  energy  into  all  the  senses.  It  is  in  favour  of  it, 
because  when  the  head  is  balanced,  in  its  right  place,  it  functions  better;  otherwise  it  is 
jammed.  It  is  such  great  traffic.  It  is  almost  a  rush  hour;  for  twenty-four  hours  a  rush 
hour. 

So  start  doing  something  —  whatsoever  you  feel.  Massage  is  very  good.  The  body  is 
beautiful.  Anything  to  do  with  the  body  is  beautiful. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #3 
Chapter  title:  None 

23  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608235 
ShortTitle:  PASSIO03 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

Kalpana  means  imagination  and  deva  means  divine  —  divine  imagination.  And  that  you 
have  to  remember:  that  your  path  will  go  through  imagination.  You  have  a  tremendous 
capacity  to  imagine.  If  you  can  use  it,  it  can  be  an  immense  help.  If  you  don't  use  it,  it  can 
become  a  barrier.  If  one  has  some  capacity,  one  has  to  use  it,  otherwise  it  becomes  like  a 
rock  on  the  path.  One  has  to  step  over  it  and  transform  it  into  a  stepping  stone.  You  have 
a  very  deep  potentiality  for  imagination. 


So  use  it.  Start  three  things.  One  is  —  imagine  yourself  as  happy  as  possible.  Within  a 
week  you  will  start  feeling  that  you  are  becoming  very  happy  —  for  no  reason  at  all.  That 
will  be  proof  of  your  dormant  capacity.  So  the  first  thing  to  do  in  the  morning  is  to 
imagine  yourself  tremendously  happy.  Get  out  of  bed  in  a  very  happy  mood  —  radiant, 
bubbling,  expectant  —  as  if  something  perfect,  of  infinite  value,  is  going  to  open,  happen, 
today.  Get  out  of  the  bed  in  a  very  positive  and  hopeful  mood,  with  the  feeling  that  this 
day  is  not  going  to  be  an  ordinary  day  —  that  something  exceptional,  extraordinary,  is 
waiting  for  you;  something  is  very  dose  by.  Try  and  remember  it  again  and  again  for  the 
whole  day.  Within  seven  days  you  will  see  that  your  whole  pattern,  your  whole  style, 
your  whole  vibration,  has  changed. 

The  second  thing  —  when  you  go  to  sleep  in  the  night,  just  imagine  that  you  are  falling 
into  the  divine  hands...  as  if  God  is  supporting  you,  that  you  are  in  His  lap,  falling  asleep. 
Just  visualise  it  and  fall  asleep.  The  one  thing  to  carry  is  that  you  should  go  on  imagining 
and  let  sleep  come,  so  that  the  imagination  enters  into  sleep;  they  are  overlapping.  This  is 
the  second  thing. 

And  the  third  thing  —  don't  imagine  any  negative  thing,  because  if  people  who  have  an 
imaginative  capacity  imagine  negative  things,  they  start  happening.  If  you  think  that  you 
are  going  to  get  ill,  you  will  get  in.  If  you  think  that  somebody  is  coming  and  he  is  going 
to  be  rude  to  you,  he  will  be.  Your  very  imagination  will  create  the  situation. 

[She  asks:  How  does  it  work?] 

That  I  will  explain  to  you  later  on.  First  start  the  morning  and  night  imagination,  and 
remember  not  to  imagine  anything  negative  for  the  whole  day.  If  the  idea  comes, 
immediately  change  it  by  a  positive  thing.  Say  no  to  it.  Drop  it  immediately;  throw  it 
away.  Then  I  will  explain  how  it  functions.  First  experience  that  it  functions;  then  it  is 
very  easy  to  understand  how  it  functions. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  have  recently  been  going  back  into  Primal  experiences,  but  my 
imagination  is  so  big,  I  don't  know  what  is  real. 

She  describes  and  experience  before  she  was  born  and  another  as  a  baby.  Osho  checks 
her  energy.] 

It  has  nothing  to  do  with  imagination.  You  have  come  across  some  actual  experiences,  so 
go  deeper  into  it. 

Don't  think  that  they  are  imaginary.  If  you  think  that,  the  mind  starts  repressing  them. 

The  very  idea  that  they  are  imaginary  is  condemnatory,  because  we  have  been  taught  that 
imagination  is  something  wrong;  that  it  is  not  real,  it  is  unreal.  Imagination  has  its  own 
reality. 

But  don't  be  bothered  to  label  what  it  is.  Simply  go  into  it.  It  is  going  to  reconcile  many 
things  in  you.  There  are  a  few  conflicts  hanging.  Once  you  go  into  those  experiences 
more  deeply,  they  will  be  resolved.  Nothing  else  is  needed  but  just  going  into  them, 
resolving  them,  reliving  them  as  totally  as  possible.  So  forget  whether  they  are  real  or 
imaginary.  They  are  going  to  have  a  real  effect  on  you  —  that  is  the  most  important  thing. 
Buddha  has  a  very  different  definition  of  reality.  He  says  that  whatsoever  has  a  real  effect 
is  real.  If  in  the  night  you  have  a  dream,  a  nightmare,  and  then  you  are  awakened  by  the 
nightmare  it  is  too  much  and  you  cannot  bear  it;  you  see  your  hands  are  trembling,  your 


body  is  perspiring,  you  are  tense  —  then  Buddha  says  the  nightmare  was  real,  because  this 
was  a  real  effect.  How  is  a  real  effect  possible  from  an  unreal  thing? 

If  the  fruit  decides  what  type  of  tree  this  is,  then  the  result  decides  whether  the  thing  and 
the  situation  was  real  or  not.  If  the  result  is  real,  the  situation  is  real.  So  don't  be  bothered. 
The  result  is  going  to  show  immediately;  then  you  will  be  completely  satisfied  that  it  was 
a  real  experience. 

[A  sannyasin  visitor,  who  had  travelled  in  India  visiting  many  gurus,  and  had  written  two 
books  on  his  experiences,  said  through  an  interpreter  that  now  he  was  sitting  in  front  of 
Osho  all  his  questions  had  fallen  away;  he  wanted  just  to  sit  and  listen.] 

That's  very  good.  That  will  do  much.  If  you  can  just  listen  and  just  be  here  in  my 
presence,  much  will  start  happening  on  its  own  accord.  Much  is  possible  just  by  listening. 
It  is  a  tremendous  meditation  —  just  to  listen.  And  nothing  else  is  needed.  If  you  can 
listen  totally,  then  two  hearts  start  meeting  and  merging.  Many  times  boundaries  are  lost. 
Many  times  you  don't  know  whether  you  are  the  listener  or  the  speaker.  Those  are  the 
rare  moments  when  something  really  happens. 

In  the  East  we  have  valued  satsang  very  much.  In  the  West  nothing  like  it  has  ever 
existed.  Satsang  is  an  absolutely  eastern  concept.  It  says  that  just  being  with  the  master, 
not  doing  anything,  is  all  that  is  needed.  If  he  speaks,  listening  to  his  words.  If  he  keeps 
quiet,  listening  to  his  silence.  If  he  laughs,  then  listening  to  his  laughter.  Just  being  there  - 
-  available,  open,  vulnerable...  just  being  a  sponge,  soaking  up  his  energy,  his  vibes...  just 
allowing  him  to  pour  himself  into  you.  People  have  attained  to  the  very  ultimate  even  just 
by  sitting  by  the  side  of  the  master. 

It  is  said  about  a  sufi  master  that  when  he  was  asked  how  he  attained,  he  said,  'For  three 
years  I  was  just  sitting  by  the  side  of  my  master,  and  he  would  not  even  look  at  me.  It  was 
difficult  to  know  whether  he  had  ever  seen  me,  because  he  would  not  look.  He  would 
come  and  go  and  would  not  look  at  me  for  three  years.  But  I  persisted,  and  then  one  day 
he  looked  at  me.  That  was  a  great  gift  —  a  grace. 

'Then  for  three  years  again  he'd  forget  me.  After  six  years,  one  day  he  smiled.  For  three 
years  again,  nothing.  Then  one  day  he  took  my  hand  in  his  own.  Again  for  three  years, 
nothing. 

'Twelve  years  passed  this  way.  Then  one  day  he  embraced  me  and  told  me,  "Now  what 
are  you  doing  here?  Go  and  do  the  same  to  others  as  I  have  done  to  you." 

'He  would  sit  and  say  "Just  sit  by  my  side"  —  that's  what  I  have  learned.' 

If  one  can  just  listen  and  be,  nothing  else  is  needed.  So,  good.  Be  here. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #4 
Chapter  title:  None 

24  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608245 
ShortTitle:  PASSIO04 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 


[A  sannyasin  says:  I  feel  I  have  a  legacy  of  laziness  and  escapism.  Either  I  don't  feel 
energy,  or  if  I  do,  I  find  it  difficult  to  just  completely  let  go.  I  feel  a  control.! 

I  feel  it  is  somewhere  and  has  become  part  of  your  bio-computer.  The  mind  functions  as  a 
computer,  and  we  go  on  feeding  it  attitudes.  They  go  on  accumulating  there  and  by  and 
by  they  become  deeply  ingrained.  Personalities  can  be  divided  into  two  categories  —  one 
psychologists  call  the  T  personality,  toxic,  and  the  other  they  call  the  N  personality, 
nourishing. 

A  toxic  personality  is  always  looking  at  things  in  a  negative  way.  The  whole  world  view 
of  the  toxic  personality  is  depressing,  sad.  The  toxic  personality  hides  in  beautiful  faces. 

A  perfectionist  is  a  toxic  personality.  You  cannot  say  that  something  is  wrong  in  a 
perfectionist,  but  the  whole  idea  of  being  a  perfectionist  is  to  find  errors,  mistakes, 
loopholes.  It  is  a  trick.  You  cannot  find  any  fault  with  a  man  who  looks  for  perfection, 
but  in  fact  that  is  not  his  goal;  perfection  is  a  device.  He  wants  to  look  at  loopholes, 
mistakes,  errors,  anything  that  is  missing,  and  this  is  the  best  way  —  to  keep  a  goal  of 
perfection  so  that  he  can  compare  them  with  the  ideal  and  always  condemn. 

This  toxic  personality  always  thinks  of  that  which  is  not  and  never  looks  at  that  which  is, 
so  discontent  becomes  natural.  A  toxic  personality  poisons  his  own  being;  not  only  that  — 
he  drips  poison. 

It  can  be  a  heritage.  If  you  have  lived  with  people  in  your  childhood  who  had  a  negative 
attitude  towards  life  ....  It  may  be  hiding  in  glowing  terms,  beautiful  language,  ideals, 
heaven,  God,  religion,  the  soul;  they  can  use  beautiful  words,  but  they  are  simply  trying 
...  and  they  talk  about  the  other  world  just  to  condemn  this  one.  They  are  not  concerned 
with  the  other  world.  They  have  no  interests  in  saints,  but  just  to  prove  that  others  are 
sinners,  they  will  talk  about  saints. 

It  is  a  very  morbid  attitude.  They  will  say,  'Become  like  Jesus.'  They  are  not  interested  in 
Jesus  at  all.  If  Jesus  were  there  they  would  be  the  last  person  to  go  to  him,  but  just  to 
condemn  you,  this  is  their  device.  You  cannot  become  Jesus,  so  you  become  a  victim. 
They  always  condemn  you.  They  create  values,  moralities,  puritan  attitudes.  They  are  the 
moralists,  the  moralisers;  they  are  the  great  poisoners  of  the  world. 

And  they  are  everywhere.  These  people  tend  to  become  teachers,  educationalists, 
professors,  vice-chancellors,  saints,  bishops,  popes;  they  tend  to  become  these  things 
because  then  they  can  condemn.  They  are  even  ready  to  sacrifice  everything  if  they  are 
just  allowed  the  joy  of  condemning  others.  They  are  everywhere,  hiding  in  many  ways. 
And  they  are  always  doing  things  for  your  good,  for  your  own  good,  so  you  are 
defenceless  against  them.  Their  heritage  is  real,  big.  They  have  dominated  the  whole 
history. 

These  people  immediately  become  dominators.  Their  very  ideology  helps  them  to 
dominate  because  they  can  become  condemnators.  And  they  talk  in  rational  terms. 
Rationalism  is  also  part  of  the  T  personality.  They  are  very  argumentative  .  .  .  very 
difficult  to  defeat  them  in  argumentation.  They  are  never  reasonable,  but  they  are  always 
rational. 

And  one  must  know  the  distinction  between  a  reasonable  man  and  a  rational  man.  A 
reasonable  man  is  never  only  rational,  because  a  reasonable  man  knows  by  experience 


that  life  has  both  —  the  rational  and  the  irrational;  that  life  has  both  —  reason  and  feeling, 
the  mind  and  the  heart. 

A  reasonable  man  is  reasonable.  A  rational  man  is  never  reasonable.  He  forces  logic  on 
life  —  and  logic  can  be  perfect;  life  can  never  be.  He  always  looks  to  the  ideal,  and  he 
tries  to  force  life  to  follow  the  ideal.  He  never  looks  into  life  and  the  reality  of  life.  His 
ideals  are  against  life. 

The  second  personality,  the  N  personality,  the  nourishing  personality,  is  totally  different. 
It  has  no  ideals,  really.  It  just  looks  into  life  and  the  reality  decides  its  ideal.  It  is  very 
reasonable.  It  is  never  perfectionistic;  it  is  wholistic  but  never  a  perfectionist.  And  it 
always  looks  on  the  good  side  of  things.  The  N  personality  is  always  hopeful,  radiant, 
adventurous,  trusting,  not  condemnatory.  These  are  the  people  who  become  poets, 
painters,  musicians. 

If  an  N  type  person  becomes  a  saint,  then  there  is  a  real  saint.  If  a  T  type  person  becomes 
a  saint,  there  is  a  false  saint,  a  pseudo-saint.  If  an  N  type  person  becomes  a  father,  then 
there  is  a  real  father.  If  an  N  type  person  becomes  a  mother,  there  is  real  mothering.  A  T 
type  is  a  pseudo  father  and  a  pseudo  mother.  That  is  just  a  trick  to  exploit  the  child,  to 
torture,  to  dominate,  possess  and  to  crush  the  child,  to  feel  powerful  by  crushing  the 
child.  The  T  type  is  in  the  majority,  so  you  may  be  right  that  you  are  carrying  a  heritage 
everybody  is.  But  once  you  become  a, ware,  there  is  not  much  of  a  problem.  You  can 
travel  from  T  to  N  very  easily. 

A  few  things  to  remember.  If  you  feel  lazy,  don't  call  it  laziness.  Listen  to  your  nature; 
maybe  that's  what  fits  you.  That's  what  I  call  a  reasonable  man.  What  can  you  do?  If 
laziness  comes  to  you,  then  that's  what  you  have  to  do.  Who  are  you  to  decide  against  it? 
And  how  can  you  win  against  it?  Even  in  your  fight  you  will  be  lazy.  Who  is  going  to 
win?  You  will  be  constantly  defeated,  and  then  you  will  feel  unnecessarily  miserable. 

Be  realistic.  Listen  to  your  own  being.  Everybody  has  his  own  pace.  A  few  people  are 
very  active,  rushing;  nothing  is  wrong  in  it.  If  they  feel  good  in  it,  it  is  good  for  them. 

Just  a  few  nights  ago  one  person  was  saying  that  he  is  always  rushing.  If  he  has  a  chance, 
he  likes  to  run  rather  than  walk.  He  jumps  up  stairs,  two,  three  steps  together.  His  wife 
goes  on  telling  him  to  drop  his  restlessness,  so  his  wife  has  created  a  guilt  in  him  —  that 
he  is  doing  something  wrong.  But  I  saw  that  the  man  is  perfectly  healthy  and  happy,  so  I 
said,  'Don't  listen  to  your  wife.  If  you  are  feeling  good,  then  run;  nothing  is  wrong  in  it.  It 
is  your  natural  pace.' 

He  said,  'There  is  my  daughter  who  is  very  lazy.  She  is  just  the  opposite  to  me,  and  my 
wife  is  against  her  also  because  she  takes  so  much  time  in  just  doing  small  things.'  Now 
this  wife  must  be  a  T  personality. 

[Osho  went  on  to  say,  as  he  had  some  nights  previously  (see  Dance  Your  Way  to  God, 
August  18th),  that  in  the  coming  century  it  will  be  the  lazy  people  who  will  be  revered, 
not  the  active  ones.  As  machines  take  over  more  and  more,  the  lazy  man  who  is  not 
demanding  work  will  be  much  appreciated.] 

And  don't  create  any  ideals  that  you  have  to  do  this.  Don't  have  any  'shoulds'.  The 
'should'creates  a  sort  of  neurosis.  Then  one  is  obsessed.  The  'should'  is  always  there, 
standing  and  condemning  you,  and  you  cannot  enjoy  anything.  Enjoy!  Kill  the  'should' 
completely  and  be  herenow.  Whatsoever  you  can  do,  do;  whatsoever  you  cannot  do, 


accept.  That  is  the  way  you  are  —  and  you  are  here  to  be  yourself,  nobody  else.  By  and  by 
you  will  see  that  your  T  is  turning  into  N.  You  will  become  nourishing  and  you  will  enjoy 
more,  you  will  love  more,  and  you  will  become  more  meditative. 

In  fact,  for  a  lazy  person  to  become  meditative  is  easier  than  for  an  active  person.  That's 
why  the  whole  East  became  lazy  —  they  meditated  too  much.  Meditation  is  a  sort  of 
passivity.  An  active  person  feels  very  restless.  Just  to  sit  silent  is  the  most  difficult  thing. 
Not  to  do  anything  is  the  most  difficult  thing  to  do  for  an  active  person. 

Just  enjoy  and  move  as  fits  your  being  —  no  shoulds,  no  ideals,  otherwise  they  will  poison 
you.  Look  at  life  with  deep  hope.  It  is  really  beautiful.  Just  look  at  it,  and  don't  wait  for 
perfection.  Don't  think  in  terms  of  your  enjoying  things  only  when  they  are  perfect;  then 
you  will  never  enjoy. 

If  a  T  type  person  encounters  God,  he  will  immediately  find  some  faults  in  Him.  That's 
why  God  is  hiding  —  because  of  T  type  people.  He  reveals  Himself  to  the  N  type,  never  to 
T  types.  He  reveals  only  to  those  who  can  take  nourishment  from  Him  —  not  only  that, 
but  to  those  who  can  nourish  Him. 

So  just  relax,  enjoy,  accept,  and  the  problems  will  disappear. 

[A  sannyasin,  who  is  leaving,  says:  I'm  feeling  loving  towards  people,  feeling  warmth, 
but  I  don't  feel  very  sexual.  I  don't  know  if  it's  slightly  repressed  or  if  it's  okay.] 

There's  no  need  to  feel  sexual  —  and  there  is  no  need  to  be  worried  about  it.  Just  feel 
loving  and  warm.  That  one  has  to  remember  —  that  one  should  not  become  cold.  If  one 
starts  feeling  cold,  then  it  is  a  problem.  And  if  sex  disappears  completely,  there  is  no 
problem;  warmth  should  not  disappear. 

It  almost  always  happens  together.  When  people's  sex  disappears,  their  warmth 
disappears.  When  their  warmth  comes,  their  sexuality  comes.  That's  why  people  think 
that  sexuality  and  warmth  are  two  aspects  of  the  same  energy.  They  are  not. 

It  is  a  good  experience  to  be  warm  and  non-sexual.  Then  you  are  growing;  then  you  are 
really  growing.  Just  to  grow  older  is  not  real  growth.  To  be  grown  is  not  to  be  a  grown 
up.  Growing  up  means  exactly  what  it  says  —  growing  up,  growing  upwards.  And  this  is  a 
beautiful  step  —  that  one  retains  the  warmth,  and  sex  by  and  by  disappears.  Sex  is 
beautiful  because  of  its  warmth;  there  is  nothing  else.  So  if  you  can  retain  the  warmth 
when  sex  disappears,  perfectly  good;  as  it  should  be.  Then  the  goal  is  preserved,  and  only 
the  non-essential  is  gone.  Never  lose  sight  of  warmth.  Sex  is  not  an  essential  thing  — 
warmth  is  essential. 

So  everything  is  going  well.  Don’t  force  sexuality  on  yourself,  otherwise  that  will  be  a 
destructive  step.  Be  more  and  more  warm.  There  is  no  need  to  become  anti-sexual.  There 
is  no  need  to  repress  sexuality.  If  sometimes  just  your  warmth  takes  you  into  sex,  it's 
okay,  it's  beautiful.  But  if  you  go  into  it  because  of  the  warmth,  then  the  motive  is 
warmth,  not  sex.  It  happens,  but  it  is  the  periphery.  The  centre  remains  your  loving  heart, 
your  warmth. 

[The  Enlightenment  Intensive  group  is  present.  The  leader  asks  whether  she  should  work 
harder  or  just  sit  back  and  let  it  happen.  Osho  asks  her  which  she  prefers  and  she  answers 
that  she  likes  being  active,] 


Then  be  active...  because  you  can  help  people  only  if  you  are  feeling  very  happy.  So 
whatsoever  you  feel  happy  in  is  the  way  to  help  people.  If  you  yourself  are  not  feeling 
happy,  then  the  help  is  not  possible.  So  there  is  no  problem. 

Always  remember  this  —  happiness  is  the  criterion.  The  whole  effort  in  the  group  is  to 
make  people  happy,  to  help  them  to  come  home.  But  if  the  leader  is  not  happy,  then  it  is 
impossible.  So  your  happiness  is  a  basic  requirement.  If  you  feel  happy  with  being  active, 
then  be  madly  active.  There  is  no  question  of  any  alternative. 

You  can  force  yourself  to  sit  by  the  side,  but  you  will  become  dull  and  sad,  you  won't  feel 
good,  and  then  the  whole  group  will  drop  to  that  low  energy  level.  You  have  high  energy, 
so  just  rush,  mm?  and  somehow  they  will  drag  themselves  [chuckling]  with  you.  That  is 
their  problem.  Mm?  Good. 

[A  group  member  says:  I've  always  spent  my  life  seeking  out  challenges  —  dealing  with 
them,  usually  mastering  them,  and  going  on  to  something  else,  another  challenge. 

I'm  hearing  two  things  from  you.  One  is,  that  perhaps  I'm  just  feeding  my  ego.  On  the 
other  hand,  in  the  past  week  you've  been  talking  about  life  as  a  challenge,  as  a  difficult 
challenge,  and  that  we  must  really  go  into  it.  I  do  want  to  continue  to  seek  out  challenges. 
Can  you  help  me  to  understand  this?] 

Both  are  the  possibilities.  One  can  just  go  on  seeking  challenges  because  it  enhances  the 
ego.  Then  the  motive  is  wrong.  What  you  are  doing  is  right,  but  the  reason  you  are  doing 
it  is  wrong.  If  you  simply  love  challenges  and  it  is  not  in  any  way  an  effort  to  enhance  the 
ego,  then  it  is  tremendously  beautiful.  Then  whatsoever  you  are  doing  is  right,  and  the 
motive  is  also  right.  Then  you  are  one  thousand  percent  right.  So  just  watch  that  —  that's 
what  I  am  saying. 

Don't  gather  the  ego.  Go  on  finding  new  challenges,  enjoy,  but  there  is  no  need  to  collect 
the  ego,  to  feed  an  ego,  because  if  you  are  feeding  an  ego,  then  in  fact  you  will  not  be 
able  to  enjoy  the  challenges;  they  become  secondary.  The  purity  is  lost  then;  you  are 
always  hankering  for  the  ego.  You  are  not  interested  in  challenges  —  you  are  interested  in 
the  ego.  If  the  ego  can  be  purchased  at  a  cheaper  cost,  you  would  like  to  purchase  it.  If 
the  ego  is  possible  without  the  challenges,  you  will  drop  the  challenges  and  you  will 
choose  the  ego.  Because  it  is  impossible  to  become  egoistic  without  challenges,  you  have 
to  go  into  the  challenges,  but  you  are  not  enjoying  them.  Then  you  are  missing  the  whole 
point  of  it.  Otherwise  it  is  tremendously  beautiful. 

Every  moment  there  are  new  challenges.  If  we  seek  we  will  find  them.  And  it  is  thrilling 
to  live  continuously  from  challenge  to  challenge,  from  one  peak  to  another.  The  higher 
you  rise,  the  higher  the  peaks  that  become  available,  and  you  don't  carry  any  burden  of 
the  ego.  Then  even  if  you  fail  in  a  challenge,  you  are  not  miserable.  You  are  still  happy 
that  you  accepted  it.  You  are  still  happy  that  the  opportunity  was  there.  You  are  still 
happy  that  you  went  into  it.  If  you  succeed,  there  is  no  ego  in  it.  You  are  simply  thrilled, 
and  you  are  ready  to  move  ahead. 

For  a  real  lover  of  challenges,  success  and  failure  mean  nothing.  The  whole  value  is  in 
the  challenge  and  the  response,  and  the  thrill  that  comes  between  crucial  moments  when 
on  this  side  is  death  and  on  that  side  is  life.  The  bridge  is  so  narrow,  just  like  a  razor's 
edge.  One  false  step  and  you  fall  into  an  infinite  abyss.  Then  one  lives  at  the  peak  of 
consciousness. 


That's  the  beauty  in  mountaineering.  Nothing  is  going  to  be  achieved  but  the  very  thrill. 
That  is  the  enjoyment  in  surfing;  nothing  is  going  to  be  achieved  but  the  very  thrill.  That 
is  the  enjoyment  when  you  go  on  driving  your  car  faster  and  faster  and  faster.  A  moment 
comes  when  each  moment  is  a  risk...  as  if  time  stops,  thinking  stops.  You  are  just  going 
one  hundred  miles  per  hour.  A  slight  this  way  and  that  [Osho  makes  a  movement  with  his 
hand,  of  a  car  veering  to  one  side]  and  you  are  gone.  Then  you  cannot  afford  to  be  sleepy. 
You  are  fully  awake  every  fibre  of  the  body  fully  awake,  all  the  nerves  of  the  mind  fully 
awake.  That's  why  one  feels  so  beautiful  in  speed.  But  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  ego. 
So  enjoy. 

The  whole  life  is  an  adventure  —  it  should  be  an  adventure.  But  there  is  no  need  to  gather 
the  ego,  because  that  becomes  the  burden.  It  won't  allow  you  to  go  to  very  high  peaks, 
because  for  the  high  peaks  you  have  to  leave  all  the  burden  behind,  below  you.  You  have 
to  go  almost  naked,  without  clothes.  The  higher  the  peak,  the  greater  is  the  requirement  to 
leave  everything  down  below.  You  cannot  carry  much  load  —  and  the  ego  is  the  greatest 
load  one  can  carry,  and  for  no  reason  at  all.  It  is  as  if  you  are  carrying  a  mountain  on  your 
head.  That  crushes  you.  Life  never  crushes  anybody  —  only  the  ego.  And  then  when  you 
succeed,  you  don't  enjoy. 

If  an  egoist  succeeds  he  never  enjoys.  If  he  fails  he  fails  very  miserably,  because  the  ego 
always  goes  on  goading.  It  says  'What  is  this?  You  have  to  achieve  more.  You  have  to 
show  more  to  the  world.  This  is  nothing.'  The  ego  never  allows  you  rest.  It  says  'It's  okay, 
but  go  ahead,  do  something  bigger.'  So  when  you  achieve,  it  is  not  happy.  If  you  fail,  it  is 
terribly  unhappy.  And  an  egoless  person,  when  he  succeeds,  he's  happy,  he  dances.  When 
he  fails,  still  he  dances  —  because  it  is  not  a  question  of  achievement  or  failure.  It  is  a 
question  of  trying,  it  is  a  question  of  living  in  critical  moments,  in  dangerous  moments.  It 
is  the  thrill  that  is  valuable. 

So  there  is  nothing  to  be  worried  about.  Just  go  on  accepting  challenges.  And  I  am 
nothing  but  a  challenge  to  you.  I  am  creating  something  in  you  which  will  become  your 
very  life's  challenge.  And  this  mountain  is  such  that  you  cannot  exhaust  it.  By  the  time 
you  reach  the  peak,  you  are  no  more,  because  the  only  way  to  reach  this  peak  is  to 
disappear.  That's  why  I  call  religion  the  passion  for  the  impossible.  It  is  a  passion  for  the 
impossible.  The  impossible  happens  —  that  too  is  true  —  but  it  happens  only  when  you 
have  disappeared. 

So  go  into  the  world.  Try  whatsoever  has  happened  to  you.  It  will  be  deepened.  Because 
this  is  my  observation  —  that  if  something  has  really  happened,  then  it  goes  on  deepening 
by  all  life  experiences.  If  it  has  not  happened,  then  only  it  disappears.  Good. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #5 
Chapter  title:  None 

25  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608255 
ShortTitle:  PASSIO05 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 


[An  indian  visitor  says:  With  so  many  ideas  before  me,  and  having  to  make  a  decision,  I 
feel  that  by  making  a  choice  I'm  locking  myself  within  a  definition.  By  making  a  choice, 

I  think  I  define  myself,  and  in  a  sense  imprison  myself.] 

Mm,  I  understand.  But  whether  you  choose  or  not,  you  choose.  Even  if  you  don't  choose, 
that  becomes  your  definition.  If  you  don't  decide,  then  indecisiveness  becomes  your 
definition.  It  is  difficult  to  escape  from  definition.  Life  does  not  allow  it.  If  you  choose, 
you  choose.  If  you  don't  choose,  still  you  have  chosen;  you  have  chosen  in  a  negative 
way. 

The  very  nature  of  life  is  such  that  one  has  to  define  oneself,  so  it  is  better  to  define 
oneself  positively  rather  than  negatively,  because  in  a  negative  state  one  can  never  be 
happy.  One  cannot  live  in  negativity.  One  can  live  in  positivity;  one  can  feel  nourished. 
One  can  be  and  grow. 

So  if  this  is  the  problem  —  that  by  choosing  something  you  become  defined,  you  become 
committed,  you  feel  a  limitation  enclosing  you  —  if  this  is  the  only  question,  then  you 
cannot  solve  it  by  choosing.  That  too  defines  you.  Somebody  chooses  to  be  inactive;  that 
is  a  definition.  Somebody  chooses  to  be  active;  that  too  is  a  definition.  Even  if  you  close 
your  room  and  you  don't  go  anywhere,  you  have  chosen.  That  will  define  you.  Even  a 
monk  who  moves  to  a  monastery  deep  in  the  Himalayas  or  in  Tibet  and  chooses  nothing, 
has  chosen.  He  has  chosen  escape.  So  choice  is  in-built. 

What  Sartre  says  is,  'Man  is  condemned  to  choose.'  There  is  no  other  way.  So  one  has  to 
simply  see  it  —  that  there  is  no  other  way.  By  being  alive  you  are  continuously  choosing. 
Each  moment  of  life  is  a  moment  of  choice.  My  suggestion  is  always  choose  something 
positively.  Even  if  you  choose  inactivity  choose  it  positively,  not  as  a  negative  to  action. 
Make  it  your  activity,  then  nothing  is  wrong  in  it.  But  choose  it  knowingly,  fully  aware, 
knowing  its  limitations,  its  narrowing.  Knowing  everything,  choose  it.  One  has  to  commit 
oneself.  Life  consists  of  commitments. 

And  don't  feel  that  you  are  being  confined,  because  every  choice  brings  two  things:  it 
confines  you  in  one  way,  it  makes  you  capable  in  another.  For  example  you  are  sitting 
here.  You  have  chosen  to  come  and  see  me  this  evening.  You  could  have  gone  to  the 
movie,  you  could  have  been  in  the  restaurant,  you  could  have  gone  to  a  concert.  A 
thousand  and  one  alternatives  were  there.  But  choosing  to  see  me,  you  are  confined.  You 
have  cancelled  those  one  thousand  alternatives;  you  have  chosen  one  alternative.  Now 
this  is  a  choice,  but  if  you  have  done  it  positively,  knowingly,  fully  aware  about  all  the 
alternatives,  all  the  possibilities,  then  by  choosing  it  you  are  growing  in  awareness. 

It  confines  you,  it  defines  you,  but  it  gives  you  an  intensity  also.  Otherwise  a  person  will 
be  spread  too  much,  and  his  whole  life  will  become  too  thin.  A  committed  person  has  an 
intensity.  He  has  a  passion.  A  non-committed  person  is  just  spread  too  much;  his  layer  is 
very  thin.  He  is  all  over  the  place  and  nowhere.  That's  a  bad  shape.  A  committed  person 
is  not  all  over  the  place.  He  is  somewhere,  but  he  is  somewhere.  You  can  rely  on  him.  He 
has  an  address.  If  you  want  to  find  him  you  can.  You  can  provoke  him,  invoke  him.  You 
can  call  him. 

An  uncommitted  person  simply  goes  this  way,  that  way,  in  a  thousand  directions 
together...  becomes  by  and  by  more  and  more  thin,  more  and  more  thin.  An  uncommitted 
person  is  like  a  river  lost  in  a  desert.  A  committed  person  is  also  like  a  river,  but  not  lost 
in  a  desert.  He  is  rushing  towards  the  ocean,  and  of  course  is  defined  because  the  two 


banks  are  there.  The  river  in  the  desert  has  no  bank.  It  is  spreading  all  over  the  desert,  all 
over  the  Sahara.  It  has  freedom,  but  to  what  end?  It  will  never  reach  any  fulfillment. 

So  the  first  thing  to  be  understood  —  life  is  a  commitment.  We  are  already  committed.  It 
is  not  a  question  for  you  to  decide  now.  By  being  alive,  you  are  already  committed.  It  is 
not  a  question  for  you  to  decide.  You  are  in  the  middle  of  the  commitment.  Nobody  is 
asking  you  to  be  committed  or  not  to  be  committed. 

That's  what  existentialists  say  —  that  it  is  as  if  one  is  thrown  into  life.  Nobody  asks 
whether  you  would  like  to  go  into  the  world  or  not.  Suddenly  one  day  you  are  here!  And 
you  are  always  in  the  middle.  The  beginning  is  not  known,  the  end  is  not  known.  We  are 
only  in  the  middle. 

Now  the  only  possible  way  for  a  man  who  thinks  well  is  to  make  something  beautiful  out 
of  this  small  time  that  is  at  his  disposal...  to  make  it  creative.  Do  something  that  gives  you 
a  sense  of  growth,  and  do  it  knowingly,  positively.  Of  course  it  will  give  you  a  definition, 
but  it  will  also  give  you  fulfillment.  If  you  become  a  poet,  that  will  be  a  definition.  You 
are  not  a  scientist,  you  are  not  a  painter,  you  are  not  a  dancer  —  you  are  a  poet!  But  that 
will  be  your  fulfillment  also.  You  are  somebody.  Something  has  flowered  in  you. 

You  can  play  around  with  things.  You  can  paint  one  day  and  become  a  poet  another  day, 
and  a  third  day  you  can  dance,  a  fourth  day  you  become  an  actor  and  on  the  fifth  day 
something  else.  You  can  go  on  doing  this.  You  will  be  simply  crazy,  and  in  the  end  you 
will  feel  very  frustrated. 

A  committed  life  comes  to  a  fulfillment,  a  fruition...  it  flowers.  Maybe  it  is  only  one 
flower,  but  why  hanker  for  many?  One  flower  is  enough.  If  it  has  really  bloomed  and 
your  being  is  satisfied,  one  flower  is  enough.  One  need  not  have  millions  of  flowers.  In 
fact  if  you  ask  the  gardener,  he  will  tell  you  that  if  you  want  a  big  flower  on  any  plant, 
you  have  to  cut  other  buds,  leave  only  one  bud  so  the  whole  shape,  the  whole  juice,  the 
whole  life  rushes  towards  one  flower,  and  then  that  flower  will  be  something. 

So  decide  to  do  something  ....  Some  day  decide  to  become  a  sannyasin,  mm?  It  will  give 
you  a  direction. 

[A  sannyasin  who  had  been  asked  to  leave  the  ashram  asked  if  he  were  really  to  leave  or 
if  this  was  a  message  to  indicate  that  he  should  apply  himself  more  to  the  work.] 

Apply  yourself  more  to  the  work...  become  a  help  to  Laxmi.  There  is  no  need  to  go,  but 
apply  yourself  more  to  the  work  —  and  don't  avoid  it.  Because  that  is  detrimental  to  your 
growth  also.  Once  you  become  accustomed  to  not  working,  you  will  stop  growing.  I 
allowed  you  enough  time...  for  years  you  were  not  doing  anything.  I  allowed  you  into  the 
ashram  only  because  now  you  should  start  doing.  A  point  has  come  in  your  growth  where 
you  need  to  move  into  the  work.  But  if  you  just  somehow  manage  to  do  it,  it  won't  help. 
Work  is  not  the  only  consideration.  You  should  do  it  happily,  lovingly,  because  if  you 
just  do  it  somehow,  like  a  duty,  that  will  not  help.  The  work  will  be  done,  but  that  will 
not  help  you.  Work  is  not  the  only  consideration.  You  are  also  —  and  you  are  more 
important  than  the  work.  Become  part  of  the  family.  Don't  remain  an  outsider. 

[The  sannyasin  says:...  the  best  jobs  were  actually  taken  away  from  me  before  I  had  a 
chance  to  do  anything  with  them. 


Now  I'm  left  with...  doing  security  guarding  for  the  therapy  bathrooms...  there  isn't  much 
scope  in  it.] 

No,  don't  think  in  those  terms.  Whatsoever  work  is  given  to  you,  do  it  as  lovingly  as 
possible.  The  point  is  not  whether  the  work  is  very  important  or  not.  If  you  do  it  lovingly, 
it  becomes  important,  whatsoever  it  is  even  if  it  is  cleaning.  The  question  is  not  what 
work  —  the  question  is  that  you  surrender  to  the  ashram  all  your  energies;  and  whatsoever 
is  available,  or  whatsoever  Laxmi  thinks  is  right,  you  do. 

Simply  surrender  to  Laxmi.  That  is  going  to  help  very  much.  Just  listen  to  her,  and 
whatsoever  she  says,  do.  This  is  a  meditation  for  you  —  surrendering  to  Laxmi. 

[The  sannyasin  said:...  a  lot  of  fear  was  coming  up  about  the  prospect  of  going  back  to  the 
West.] 

There  is  no  need  to  go,  unless  you  yourself  want  to.  But  if  you  don't  become  a  part,  an 
organic  part  of  the  ashram,  and  you  remain  aloof....  Because  Laxmi  feels  that  whatsoever 
she  gives  you,  there  are  a  few  problems.  And  the  basic  problem  that  I  have  understood  is 
that  you  would  like  it  to  be  done  your  way.  That  creates  trouble.  Simply  relax  and  say, 
'Show  me  the  way  and  I  will  do  it.'  Simply  execute  it  and  don't  try  to  dominate  it. 
Sometimes  you  may  know  better,  and  your  plan  may  be  better,  but  still,  drop  it,  because 
you  will  have  to  fit  with  many  people  and  they  all  feel  it  is  difficult  to  work  with  [you] 
because  you  have  your  fixed  ideas.  I'm  not  saying  that  those  ideas  are  wrong.  They  may 
be  better,  but  the  problem  is  that  you  have  to  fit  with  everybody.  If  everybody  feels  that  it 
is  difficult  to  work  with  [you],  then  it  becomes  difficult  for  Laxmi  to  arrange. 

So  simply  drop  your  ideas.  Tell  Laxmi  that  whatsoever  she  feels  like,  just  to  tell  you  and 
you  will  do  it.  You  will  put  your  whole  energy  into  it  and  will  not  put  forward  your  ideas, 
your  plans,  because  Laxmi  knows  the  whole  situation  better. 

For  three  months  simply  relax,  then  we  will  see.  And  she  is  bound  to  listen  to  you.  If  you 
have  some  good  ideas,  she  is  bound  to  listen  to  you.  But  first  become  a  part.  And 
whatsoever  she  says,  be  a  yes-sayer.  And  unless  you  want  to,  there  is  no  need  to  go. 

Good. 

[A  sannyasin  asks:  Today  I  was  reading  a  german  newspaper  and  there  was  written  in  it 
that  in  many  parts  of  the  world  there  are  earthquakes.  I  should  like  to  know  what  is  going 
on.] 

Mm...  nothing  much.  It  is  just  that  the  earth  is  burdened  too  much  with  human  beings  and 
wants  to  get  rid  of  them.  We  have  overproduced  ourselves  and  created  too  much  tension. 
The  earth  is  really  burdened.  So  it  is  nothing  much.  Nothing  to  be  worried  about. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  have  a  voice  inside  me  that  keeps  me  from  being  happy.  I  listen  to  it 
and  have  a  difficult  time  staying  outside  it...  It  says  I'm  not  good  enough...  ] 

[Osho  had  talked  in  the  discourse  this  morning  about  the  three  layers  of  one's  being  as 
described  in  Transactional  Analysis  —  the  child,  the  parent,  the  adult  —  P,  A,  C  —  saying 


that  finally  one  had  to  transcend  all  and  attain  to  one's  own  being,  free  of  any  of  these 
voices.] 


[The  sannyasin  said  the  voices  were  from  ninth  grade.] 

Mm  mm,  it  is  just  an  old  record  —  absolutely  irrelevant.  But  it  goes  on  playing.  You  have 
to  put  it  off.  You  cannot  erase  it;  there  is  no  need  to  erase  it.  You  just  have  to  understand 
that  this  is  foolish.  Who  are  these  school  friends?  How  do  they  know  that  you  cannot 
make  it?  Who  are  they?  And  how  can  they  decide?  How  can  anybody  else  decide  that 
you  cannot  make  it?  Except  for  you,  nobody  can  decide  it. 

And  you  also  cannot  decide  it  beforehand.  First  you  have  to  try  it  and  see  whether  you 
make  it  or  not,  because  if  you  decide  beforehand  that  you  cannot  make  it,  you  will  not  be 
able  to.  Your  decision  will  affect  your  life.  If  will  become  an  auto-suggestion.  It  will 
become  a  seed.  It  will  sabotage  your  whole  life.  Even  you  cannot  decide  what  you  can 
make  an,d  what  you  cannot  make.  You  have  to  do  it,  you  have  to  see  it.  Only  life  decides. 
So  it  is  simply  foolish,  childish  —  but  many  childish  things  continue.  The  tape  goes  on 
playing  itself,  and  if  you  play  it  too  much,  it  becomes  habitual. 

And  it  is  a  trick  of  the  mind  —  it  is  a  trick  to  avoid.  Once  you  decide  that  you  cannot 
make  it,  then  why  bother?  Why  struggle?  Why  so  much  conflict,  effort?  You  know 
already  that  you  cannot  make  it.  It  is  the  mind  finding  a  rationalisation  so  that  you  can 
avoid  struggle.  And  of  course,  if  you  avoid  effort,  you  will  not  make  it,  so  you  fall  back 
upon  your  decision.  You  say  it  was  right,  it  was  always  right;  you  knew  it  beforehand. 
These  are  self-perpetuating  things  in  the  mind;  they  perpetuate  themselves.  They  fulfill 
themselves,  and  the  circle  goes  on  moving,  the  wheel  goes  on  moving. 

I  don't  see  why  you  can't  make  it.  You  are  alive  —  why  can't  you  make  it?  Life  is  trying  in 
every  way  within  you  to  make  it  —  otherwise  you  would  not  be  here.  You  cannot  be 
purposelessly  here.  Life  has  not  yet  become  hopeless  in  you,  otherwise  you  would  die. 
The  very  thing  is  enough  evidence  that  life  is  still  alive  within  you,  thriving,  kicking,  still 
striving.  You  are  Still  breathing  and  you  are  still  there.  Once  it  is  really  settled  that  you 
cannot  make  it  —  that  you  are  doomed,  nothing  is  going  to  happen  to  you  —  you  will  die 
immediately,  you  cannot  live  a  single  moment,  because  then  life  has  nothing  to  be  there 
for.  The  destiny  is  closed.  But  you  are  breathing...  you  are  aware. 

Life  has  not  become  hopeless  about  you.  God  still  goes  on  hoping  about  you,  hence  He 
goes  on  giving  you  life.  Every  morning  you  are  awake  again.  He  again  tries.  He  has  not 
become  hopeless,  otherwise  you  would  disappear.  Man  exists  because  God  hopes.  Man  is 
a  hope...  a  divine  hope,  a  dream  in  God's  mind.  The  moment  God  becomes  hopeless 
about  you,  you  will  be  there  no  more;  you  simply  disappear. 

You  can  make  it.  You  are  here  to  make  it.  But  these  foolish  noises  that  you  have  gathered 
—  put  them  off!  Just  tell  the  mind,  'Enough  of  this  nonsense.'  Let  them  shout  —  you  go  on 
your  way.  By  and  by  they  will  stop  bothering  you,  and  by  and  by  you  will  start  achieving 
things.  That  will  be  a  proof  —  and  only  that  proof  will  make  them  shut  their  mouths; 
otherwise  they  will  continue. 

Nobody  has  the  right  to  condemn  you,  but  everybody  carries  these  voices  within,  and 
everybody  has  to  come  to  understand,  otherwise  one  never  grows.  So  whenever  it 
happens  again,  just  say  to  them,  'Shut  up!'  and  don't  pay  much  attention.  Become 


indifferent  and  go  on  your  way.  Whatsoever  you  want  to  do,  do.  Only  by  doing  it  you 
will  prove  them  wrong;  otherwise  there  is  no  way. 

Once  glimpses  start  coming  to  you,  and  you  are  on  the  right  track,  and  you  feel  that  yes, 
you  are  arriving,  they  will  disappear  by  themselves.  They  will  not  be  able  to  show  their 
face  to  you.  In  fact  use  them  as  a  challenge  that  you  have  to  prove  them  false.  This  is 
your  life's  work. 

Do  Vipassana  now  —  and  in  Vipassana  the  voices  will  be  com-ing  more  strongly.  Just 
become  a  Buddha  and  tell  them,  'I  have  already  arrived  —  now  it  is  futile.'  And  they  will 
go.  Don't  take  them  very  seriously.  They  are  ridiculous  —  and  laughter  is  the  greatest 
medicine  to  cure  such  things. 

[A  sannyasin  comes  forward  laughing  and  crying  simultaneously.  Whenever  she  comes 
to  darshan,  she  invariably  collapses  in  front  of  Osho,  overwhelmed  by  his  presence. 

She  says:  I  don't  know!  [laughter]  What's  happening  to  me?] 

Much  has  happened.  Great  things  are  happening  to  you.  I  am  happening  to  you 
[laughter].  The  medical  name  for  it  is  Rajneeshitis  [much  laughter]. 

It  is  a  sort  of  madness  [a  chuckle]  —  infectious,  but  happening  only  to  very  courageous 
people!  Mm?  Good! 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #6 
Chapter  title:  None 

26  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608265 
ShortTitle:  PASSIO06 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I'm  just  getting  ready  to  leave.  I  had  many  questions  when  I  arrived, 
but  I  don't  remember  them.] 

That's  very  good.  That's  how  it  should  be.  When  you  come,  you  come  with  many 
questions.  When  you  go,  go  without  any  questions.  I'm  not  saying  you  will  be  going  with 
answers,  but  if  you  can  go  without  questions,  that’s  enough. 

In  fact  there  is  no  answer.  There  are  only  two  states  of  mind  —  a  mind  full  of  questions 
and  a  mind  empty  of  questions. 

So  the  whole  growth  is  to  come  to  a  point  where  you  can  live  without  answers;  that  is 
what  maturity  is  —  and  to  live  without  answers  is  the  greatest  and  most  courageous  act. 
Then  you  are  no  more  a  child.  A  child  goes  on  asking  questions,  and  he  wants  answers 
for  everything.  A  child  believes  that  if  he  can  formulate  a  question,  then  there  must  be  an 
answer.  If  he  can  put  a  question,  then  there  must  be  somebody  to  supply  the  answer. 

That  childishness  continues  even  into  old  age.  That  has  continued  down  the  centuries. 
Even  your  so-called  great  philosophers  remain  immature.  Because  I  call  this  immaturity  - 
-  that  you  think  that  because  you  can  formulate  a  question,  there  is  bound  to  be  an 


answer;  maybe  you  know  it  or  not,  but  somebody  must  be  knowing,  or  some  day  you  will 
be  able  to  discover  it.  That's  not  so.  All  questions  are  man-created,  manufactured  by  man. 
Existence  has  no  answer.  Existence  is  there,  with  no  answers,  completely  silent. 

If  you  can  drop  all  questions,  a  communication  happens  between  you  and  existence.  A 
non-questioning  mind  is  the  universal  mind.  In  the  West  it  is  thought  that  a  wise  man  is 
one  who  knows  all  the  answers  to  all  the  questions.  At  least  a  wise  man  is  supposed  to 
know  all  the  answers.  He  is  supposed  to  be  omniscient.  But  in  the  East  we  have  a  totally 
different  attitude.  The  eastern  attitude  about  a  Buddha  is  that  all  his  questions  have 
disappeared,  and  now  he  is  not  hankering  for  any  answers  whatsoever.  Not  even  a  slight 
desire  is  there  for  any  answer.  He  has  simply  dropped  that  whole  trip. 

The  moment  you  drop  questions,  you  drop  philosophy,  you  drop  theology,  you  drop 
logic,  and  you  start  living.  You  become  existential.  When  there  are  no  questions,  that 
state  itself  is  the  answer. 

[The  sannyasin  asks  for  a  name  for  the  groups  which  he  runs  in  the  west] 

I  will  give  you  a  name  which  covers  everything  and  a  little  more.  This  will  be  the  name 
[leaning  forward  to  explain  the  name  written  on  paper]  :  Shunyam.  It  means  the  zero 
experience.  It  means  the  point  where  you  are  nowhere,  nobody,  nameless,  identity-less, 
formless;  neither  positive  nor  negative,  but  just  exactly  in  the  middle  —  the  zero 
experience. 

That's  what  samadhi  is  —  the  ultimate  goal  of  all  meditations.  Buddha  calls  his  ultimate 
reality  shunyam.  One  simply  dissolves  into  it.  It  is,  in  a  way,  ultimate  death,  but  that's 
also  an  ultimate  birth.  On  the  one  hand  it  is  crucifixion,  on  another  it  is  resurrection. 

And  now  associate  me  with  it  also.  So,  'Shunyam  Rajneesh  Enlightenment  Process'.  You 
call  it  this.  And  now  work  for  me. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #7 
Chapter  title:  None 

27  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608275 
ShortTitle:  PASSIO07 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

Deva  means  divine  and  navaneet  means  essence,  essential.  Divinity  is  our  essence.  We 
may  have  forgotten  it,  but  we  cannot  lose  it.  We  may  have  become  completely  oblivious 
of  it,  but  there  is  no  way  to  get  away  from  it.  It  is  not  accidental,  it  is  essential.  Anything 
accidental  can  be  taken  away  from  you.  You  may  have  it,  you  may  not  have  it  —  it 
depends.  But  the  essential  is  that  which  cannot  be  taken  away  from  you.  You  have  to 
have  it.  At  the  most  you  can  become  forgetful  about  it,  or  you  can  remember  it.  And  that 
is  the  only  difference  between  an  enlightened  person  and  an  unenlightened  person. 

The  difference  is  not  in  their  nature.  The  difference  is  in  their  remembrance.  One 
remembers,  recognises  oneself  and  who  one  is  —  and  the  other  is  in  a  stupor.  Of  course  he 


is  also  that  because  there  is  no  other  way  to  be.  God  is  the  commonmost  thing,  the 
universal  essence  of  everybody  and  everything.  Not  only  persons  but  things  are  also 
divine.  That  is  the  meaning  of  Deva  Navaneet.  Navaneet  has  another  meaning  also. 

It  means  as  out  of  milk  you  can  , create  curd,  out  of  curd  you  can  create  butter,  and  out  of 
butter,  in  India  we  create  ghee,  but  out  of  ghee  you  cannot  create  anything  —  that  is  the 
last  flowering  —  so  navaneet  means  also  ghee,  the  last  flowering  of  being.  There  is  no 
beyond  to  it.  It  is  the  beyond.  And  there  is  nowhere  to  fall  back.  Out  of  milk  you  can 
create  curd,  but  out  of  curd  you  cannot  create  milk.  Out  of  curd  you  can  create  butter,  but 
out  of  butter  you  cannot  create  curd.  There  is  no  way  to  fall  back.  You  are  always  going 
ahead.  Whatsoever  is  learned,  is  learned. 

There  is  no  way  to  unlearn  it.  And  whatsoever  you  have  become,  you  have  become. 

Only  evolution  exists.  There  is  nothing  like  devolution.  That  too  is  also  the  meaning,  and 
both  the  meanings  are  beautiful. 

[The  new  sannyasin  says  he  is  a  doctor  but  trailing  for  group-leading  bio-energetics.] 

Bio-energetics?  Very  good.  That's  a  good  combination.  You  can  bring  all  your 
understanding  about  the  human  body  and  physiology  into  your  bio-energetic  training,  and 
it  will  be  a  beautiful  combination.  It  is  always  good  to  bring  two  branches  of  knowledge 
together;  then  something  new  happens.  It  is  like  cross-breeding.  Original  insights  come 
only  when  two  branches  of  knowledge  come  together. 

For  example,  if  a  poet  becomes  a  mathematician,  something  new  is  going  to  happen.  Or  if 
a  mathematician  becomes  a  physicist,  then  something  new  is  going  to  happen.  If  a 
chemist  becomes  a  poet,  it  is  bound  to  impress  his  poetry,  and  there  will  be  something 
new  which  no  other  poet  can  do.  If  you  know  two  branches  of  knowledge,  then  deep  in 
your  heart,  a  synthesis  arises.  There  is  no  need  to  work  it  out.  It  happens  on  its  own. 

In  the  beginning  sometimes  it  may  look  like  chaos,  because  when  you  are  moving  in  two 
directions,  they  have  very  different  gestalts.  Their  working  patterns  are  different,  their 
structure  is  different,  their  world  views  are  different.  So  sometimes  it  is  very  chaotic  — 
that's  why  people  don't  want  to  jump  from  one  line  to  another.  They  stick  to  one  line  — 
that  is  convenient.  But  if  you  can  take  the  chaos  with  ease,  something  new  will  be  born  in 
you. 

All  new  insights  have  happened  down  the  ages  only  because  a  few  people  moved  into 
different  branches  for  which  they  were  not  really  trained.  All  pioneers  are  amateurs.  They 
were  trained  for  something  else;  they  were  meant  to  be  something  else.  Then  they  entered 
into  something  for  which  they  had  no  training,  so  their  old  training  and  their  new 
direction  combined  together  makes  something  beautiful  flower.  So,  very  good. 

But  I  would  suggest  that  you  don't  stop  practising  medicine.  Continue.  Practise  medicine 
also  by  the  side,  otherwise  you  will  lose  contact.  Medical  science  is  such  a  growing 
science  that  if  you  lose  contact,  you  lose  contact.  It  is  not  something  very  static,  very 
stable.  Each  six  months  things  are  going  so  fast.  Keep  in  contact  and  go  on  learning  bio¬ 
energetics,  and  something  beautiful  will  come  out  of  it. 

And  I'm  going  to  be  there  also,  inside  you.  You  have  invited  danger  from  now  on! 


[An  eight-year-old  sannyasin  asks  through  the  translator:  He  would  like  to  know  what 
you  are  doing  here...  what  thing  in  particular.] 


Destroying  people!  —  because  that  is  the  only  way  to  create  them.  I  am  a  murderer  —  I 
kill  people!  But  then  one  has  to  revive  them. 

Would  you  like  to  become  a  murderer?  Next  time  you  come  I  will  teach  you  some  tricks! 

[A  sannyasin  newly-arrived  back  from  the  States  to  live  here  permanently  says:  I'm  glad 
to  be  here.] 

Mm,  this  is  your  home.  You  were  searching  for  it,  and  you  have  found  it.  Forget  the 
whole  world  —  now  this  is  going  to  be  your  world.  It  is  a  small  world,  but  very  deep.  If 
you  allow,  it  will  transform  you.  Just  be  at  home...  relax  and  become  part  of  the  ashram. 

[A  visitor  says:  I  just  came  to  see  you  and  now  I  am  afraid.] 

Afraid?  That  I  can  see.  Come  a  little  closer! 

Fear  is  natural... 

You  are  ready,  that's  why  you  are  afraid.  People  become  afraid  only  when  they  are  ready, 
when  they  feel  that  something  can  happen  —  that  they  can  be  transformed.  Ordinarily 
people  don't  become  afraid.  So  take  the  jump  —  become  a  sannyasin.  Why  are  you...?  It 
will  help. 

Whenever  you  are  afraid  of  something,  do  it  [laughter].  That's  the  only  way  to  get  rid  of 
it.  Otherwise  I  will  haunt  you  in  Germany,  and  you  will  be  in  trouble!  Close  your  eyes 
and  become  a  sannyasin.  You  don't  have  to  be  afraid.  Now  you  are  going  to  become  mad, 
so... 

Now  there  will  be  no  fear  —  I  will  be  with  you. 

This  will  be  your  name:  Ma  Prem  Kadambari. 

Prem  means  love  and  kadambari  means  wine  —  wine  of  love.  It  is  one  of  the  most 
beautiful  names  in  India,  and  that's  what  is  your  potentiality.  Right  now  you  are  just 
grapes,  but  soon  you  will  become  wine.  And  love  is  going  to  transform  you. 

People  who  are  afraid  are  the  people  who  are  capable  of  tremendous  love.  Fear  is  a 
negative  aspect  of  love.  If  love  is  not  allowed  to  flow,  it  becomes  fear.  If  love  is  allowed 
to  flow,  fear  disappears.  That's  why  only  in  moments  of  love  there  is  no  fear.  If  you  love 
a  person,  suddenly  fear  disappears.  Lovers  are  the  only  people  who  are  fearless.  Even 
death  makes  no  problem.  Only  lovers  can  die  in  tremendous  silence  and  fearlessness. 

But  it  always  happens  that  the  more  you  love,  the  more  you  feel  fear.  That's  why  women 
feel  more  fear  than  men,  because  they  have  more  potentiality  for  love.  In  this  world  there 
are  very  few  possibilities  to  actualise  your  love,  so  it  remains  hanging  around  you.  And  if 
any  potentiality  remains  hanging,  it  turns  to  its  opposite.  It  can  become  jealousy;  that  too 
is  part  of  fear.  It  can  become  possessiveness;  that  too  is  part  of  fear.  It  can  become  even 
hatred;  that  too  is  part  of  fear.  So  be  more  and  more  loving.  Love  unconditionally,  and 
love  in  as  many  ways  as  possible.  One  can  love  in  millions  of  ways. 

One  can  just  love  a  stranger  passing  on  the  road.  One  can  just  feel  love  for  him,  and  go 
on  one  s  way.  There  is  no  need  to  even  talk.  There  is  no  need  to  communicate  it.  One  can 
simply  feel  and  go  on  one's  own  way.  One  can  love  a  rock.  One  can  love  the  trees,  one 


can  love  the  sky,  the  stars.  One  can  love  the  friend,  the  husband,  the  children,  the  father, 
the  mother.  One  can  love  in  millions  of  ways. 

Once  your  whole  energy  is  functioning  as  a  love,  the  wine  will  start  dripping  out  of  it. 
And  when  love  is  flowing,  prayer  arises.  Prayer  is  the  wine.  Love  is  like  grapes. 

[The  new  sannyasin  says  she  is  a  doctor.] 

You  will  become  capable.  You  just  need  a  little  more  love  flowing.  It  works  more  than 
any  medicine.  Up  to  now  medical  science  has  not  been  able  to  find  anything  more  potent 
than  love.  If  you  can  be  loving  to  the  patient,  you  will  be  tremendously  successful, 
because  medicines  are  secondary.  They  are  still  not  primary.  Therapy  is  a  function  of 
love.  Love  is  therapeutic. 

You  can  even  sometimes  just  give  water  to  the  patient  with  deep  love,  deep  compassion, 
and  it  will  function.  There  have  been  many  experiments  in  which  the  proportion  is  almost 
the  same.  You  give  the  medicine;  it  works.  You  give  water;  it  works  the  same  way  — 
what  you  call  a  placebo.  But  if  it  is  given  with  love  and  the  patient  trusts,  it  functions. 
When  you  love,  you  create  trust. 

And  it  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  professions  to  choose  because  it  allows  you  to  be 
loving.  It  becomes  ugly,  it  has  become  ugly,  because  it  has  become  a  sort  of  exploitation. 
You  are  exploiting  people's  diseases,  illnesses.  That's  why  one  feels  it  is  a  little  heavy. 
Otherwise  it  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  professions  —  if  you  love.  You  may  not  become 
very  rich  if  you  love,  but  you  will  feel  tremendously  enriched  inside. 

So  if  you  don't  bother  about  money  too  much,  there  is  no  problem.  Then  you  can  help 
many  people  to  be  healthy  and  whole.  Their  prayers  will  be  for  you,,  and  their  hearts  will 
be  for  you  and  you  will  be  tremendously  fulfilled.  But  if  you  make  money  the 
consideration,  then  it  is  one  of  the  worst  professions.  In  a  better  world,  money  should  not 
be  a  relationship  at  all  between  the  doctor  and  the  patient  because  it  destroys  love.  Money 
is  the  most  anti-love  thing  in  the  world.  And  when  you  are  treating  a  patient  for  money, 
of  course  the  patient  becomes  irrelevant.  He  is  just  a  number;  he  has  no  being  in  him. 
Because  he  pays  you,  you  treat  him,  but  you  become  impersonal,  indifferent. 

In  fact,  deep  down,  if  the  patient  is  very  rich,  in  your  unconscious  you  want  him  to 
remain  ill  a  little  longer.  It  creates  guilt  also,  because  if  a  rich  patient  is  cured  easily,  he 
will  not  be  paying  too  much.  So  if  the  patient  is  rich,  the  unconscious  desire  remains  in 
the  doctor  to  let  him  linger  a  little.  This  is  very  dangerous,  but  it  is  so. 

So  make  it  more  meditative,  make  it  more  loving.  Whatsoever  time  you  are  here  for, 
meditate  as  deeply  as  possible.  Your  meditation  has  started.  I  have  started  working  on 
you.  Forget  everything,  and  let  your  love  grow.  By  the  time  you  go  back,  you  will  be  able 
to  have  a  totally  different  outlook  about  your  profession.  I  cannot  guarantee  that  that  will 
help  you  to  earn  much  money,  but  money  is  not  a  consideration.  You  can  always  get 
enough  for  your  needs,  but  that's  all...  more  than  enough.  But  make  it  a  function  of  your 
loving  heart.  Let  it  be  a  service,  and  then  you  will  see  that  it  is  helping  you.  It  will  help 
you  to  grow. 

What  more  can  you  expect?  If  you  are  serving  human  beings,  you  are  doing  one  of  the 
best  things  that  can  be  done.  Somebody  is  painting  on  the  canvas,  somebody  is  writing  a 
poem,  and  somebody  is  playing  on  a  musical  instrument  —  you  are  playing  on  human 
beings,  you  are  painting  on  a  human  canvas.  You  are  doing  something  with  the  most 


evolved  phenomenon  in  the  world.  One  should  be  happy.  But  a  different  vision  is  needed, 
that's  all.  It  will  come.... 

[A  sannyasin,  said  through  an  interpreter  that  she  was  concerned  that  by  having 
relationships  with  women,  she  was  running  away  from  men.  She  asked  for  Osho's  help. 
Osho  checked  her  energy.] 

Nothing  is  wrong.  You  can  continue.  Don't  have  any  condemnatory  attitude  about  it.  You 
are  not  trying  to  escape  from  men  —  your  energy  simply  fits  with  women.  And  if  any  day 
you  are  going  to  make  any  relationship  with  a  man,  it  will  be  possible  only  when  you 
have  passed  through  and  grown  up  from  this  relationship.  So  it  is  not  against  men.  It  is 
just  a  growth  situation  for  you.  Simply  go  into  it  as  deeply  as  possible  and  drop  all 
negative  attitudes;  they  are  very  ingrained. 

Love  is  always  beautiful,  whatsoever  the  form.  And  don't  bother  too  much  about  what  the 
society  says.  Your  energy  fits  completely  with  the  feminine  energy,  so  continue.  Later  on 
I  can  see  that  you  may  grow  out  of  it,  and  then  you  will  be  able  to  be  related  to  a  man;  not 
before  it.  But  there  is  no  hurry.  Don't  be  worried  about  it. 

[The  Encounter  group  was  present  tonight.  The  group  leader  says:  It  hasn't  come 
together  as  a  group.  They  are  more  like  many  individuals  —  but  it's  working.  It's  going 
well.] 

Mm,  mm,  that  too  happens  sometimes,  but  that  has  its  own  beauty.  Sometimes  a  group 
becomes  an  orchestra  and  gathers  a  collective  soul.  That  has  its  own  beauty.  Sometimes 
the  group  remains  very  individualistic,  all  solo  players.  Each  may  be  doing  perfectly  well 
on  his  own,  but  there  is  no  group  soul.  That  too  is  good.  And  one  should  never  try  to 
force  anything.  If  it  is  growing  into  a  group  soul,  good.  If  it  is  going  separate  ways, 
everybody  is  growing  separately,  that  too  is  good.  That's  what  their  need  is. 

Two  types  of  people  can  fall  into  a  group  unity.  One,  very  childish  people,  who  don’t 
have  much  of  the  ego  in  them,  who  don't  have  much  intellectual  scepticism  in  them... 
simple,  innocent  people,  a  little  childish.  They  immediately  form  a  group  soul.  There  are 
people  who  have  got  completely  fed  up  with  their  intellect,  with  their  egos  —  super¬ 
intellectuals.  Then  too  they  drop  their  egos  and  become  part  of  a  group  soul.  And  all  who 
are  in  between  will  remain  individuals.  They  are  not  childish,  they  are  not  yet  so  fed  up 
with  their  intellect  and  their  ego.  They  will  remain  individuals.  But  that's  what  their  need 
is  at  the  moment.  So  your  work  is  just  to  help  them  be  whatsoever  they  can  be. 
Whatsoever  is  there,  you  have  to  help  it  to  come  up.  Mm?  Good. 

[A  group  member  said  she  felt  she  was  holding  on  to  something  but  she  did  not  know 
what  it  was.  Osho  checked  her  energy.] 

You  continue  to  play  games  —  that  is  the  real  problem.  But  it  comes  only  when 
something  really  penetrates  and  touches  the  problem.  You  can  go  on  playing  games  of 
being  open,  flowing.  You  can  act  —  and  you  have  been  doing  that.  You  enjoyed  doing 
that,  but  this  time  you  failed  in  acting  —  and  that's  very  good. 


Now  you  have  become  aware  of  something,  a  stagnant  energy,  but  now  something  can  be 
done.  Once  we  know  where  the  problem  is,  things  become  easy. 

[Osho  then  gives  her  sannyas.] 

Anand  means  bliss,  blissful,  and  alka  in  indian  mythology  is  the  city  of  gods.  In  heaven 
where  the  gods  live,  that  city  is  called  alka.  The  name  will  mean  blissful  city  of  gods. 

So  forget  the  old  and  become  blissful.  There  is  no  problem  —  just  a  small  something 
blocking  the  way.  It  will  go.  By  tomorrow  morning  you  will  feel  totally  different.... 

[A  group  member  says  he  feels  stuck:  In  my  head.  I  think  before  I  do.] 

So  start  doing  a  few  things  without  thinking.  That  is  the  only  way  to  break  the  habit.  Just 
anything  will  be  helpful!  You  may  be  sitting  —  just  give  yourself  a  jerk,  and  then  think 
later.  Let  the  jerk  happen  first  and  then  see  afterwards.  You  are  going  somewhere;  turn 
around.  Do  a  few  crazy  things,  because  nothing  puts  the  mind  into  its  place  like  crazy 
things.  You  will  enjoy  it  very  much,  because  if  the  mind  gets  into  the  habit  of  always 
thinking  before  doing,  then  you  miss  life.  Then  nothing  is  spontaneous  because  the  mind 
always  comes  before  you  can  act.  It  gives  you  a  rehearsal. 

You  think  pro  and  con,  and  by  the  time  you  decide,  the  moment  is  lost,  the  moment  is 
gone.  Then  you  are  never  spontaneous.  You  always  miss  the  real  time  for  anything  to 
happen.  You  will  always  be  late.  You  will  decide,  'Now  I  should  do  it,'  but  then  it  is  too 
late.  Life  is  going  so  fast  —  thinkers  never  accomplish  anything;  they  only  think.  I  am  not 
against  thinking,  but  doing  is  more  primary.  When  you  have  a  luxurious  moment  and 
nothing  to  do,  sit  in  a  chair  and  enjoy  thinking;  nothing  is  wrong  in  it.  But  life  should  not 
be  decided  by  thinking. 

If  you  come  across  a  beautiful  woman  and  you  start  thinking  about  whether  to  fall  in  love 
or  not,  you  will  miss.  By  the  time  you  will  be  able  to  decide,  you  will  be  old  and  the 
woman  will  be  gone,  dead,  or  may  have  four  children.  Life  needs  decisiveness  each 
moment. 

So  just  try.  Anything  will  do  just  to  get  out  of  the  habit.  Otherwise  you  will  get  more  and 
more  into  thinking.  And  getting  more  and  more  into  the  head  is  like  getting  more  and 
more  into  the  grave.  But  nothing  to  be  worried  about  —  the  head  will  disappear. 

[To  a  sannyasin  who  had  returned  from  the  West.] 

Just  be  here  —  and  to  be  here  without  any  questions  is  more  helpful.  The  questioning 
mind  is  concerned  too  much  with  its  questions,  and  goes  on  missing  many  things.  When 
there  is  no  questioning  in  the  mind,  you  cannot  miss  anything;  you  are  simply  okay. 

A  question  closes  you,  allows  you  a  small  slit  of  opening  through  the  question,  but 
otherwise  it  closes  you.  It  is  like  a  keyhole.  Without  any  question,  you  are  just  under  the 
sky.  And  that  is  the  difference  between  philosophical  enquiry  and  religious  enquiry. 

A  philosophical  enquiry  is  with  questions.  It  is  based  on  curiosity.  Some  questions  are 
haunting  you.  You  are  restless  because  of  them;  you  want  some  answer  so  you  can  rest. 
And  those  questions  won't  allow  you  to  rest  unless  you  find  the  answer.  Of  course 
answers  are  never  found.  Whatsoever  we  call  an  answer  is  only  a  temporary  thing.  Again 


out  of  one  answer,  ten  questions  arise.  And  it  goes  on  that  way.  So  each  answer  simply 
proves  that  there  are  more  questions  to  be  asked,  nothing  else.  It  never  solves  any 
question  —  it  only  creates  more  questions.  This  is  the  difference  between  religious 
enquiry  and  philosophical  enquiry. 

A  religious  enquiry  is  a  non-questioning  attitude.  In  India  we  call  it  satsang  —  just  being 
in  the  presence  of  the  master...  nothing  to  ask.  Just  being  in  the  presence...  just  drinking 
and  soaking  in  the  presence.  Then  one  starts  growing  towards  the  answer. 

If  you  ask  questions  you  will  get  many  answers,  but  never  the  answer.  And  unless  the 
answer  is  arrived  at,  everything  is  futile.  When  you  don't  ask,  in  that  non-questioning 
attitude,  in  that  trust,  in  that  non-doubting,  something  starts  happening  which  by  and  by 
becomes  the  answer. 

So  this  is  the  paradox.  If  you  ask  the  questions,  you  will  never  come  to  the  answer.  If  you 
don't  ask  the  questions,  you  are  certain  to  come  to  the  answer. 

So  this  is  very  good.  Just  be  here...  be  as  you  are.  Just  enjoy  me,  delight  in  me.  Celebrate 
me  and  be  happy  for  no  reason  at  all. 

Life  is  a  mystery  to  be  lived,  not  a  problem  to  be  solved. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #8 
Chapter  title:  None 

28  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608285 
ShortTitle:  PASSIO08 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[A  visitor  said  she  had  trouble  becoming  involved  in  the  meditations  here,  adding  that  she 
could  not  stay  much  longer  as  she  was  a  psychiatrist  and  had  patients  to  see.] 

A  psychiatrist  needs  to  be  meditative  more  than  anybody  else  —  because  your  whole  work 
is  dangerous  in  a  way.  Unless  you  are  very  calm  and  quiet,  unless  you  can  remain 
unaffected  by  things  that  happen  around  you,  it  is  very  dangerous. 

More  psychiatrists  go  mad  than  any  other  professional  people  and  more  psychiatrists 
commit  suicide  than  any  other  professional  people.  This  is  something  to  be  pondered 
over.  The  proportion  is  really  too  much.  Twice  as  many  people  commit  suicide.  That 
simply  shows  that  the  profession  is  full  of  dangers.  It  is  —  because  whenever  you  are 
treating  a  person  who  is  psychologically  disturbed,  in  a  mess,  he  is  constantly 
broadcasting  his  vibes.  He  is  constantly  throwing  out  his  own  energy,  his  negative  waves 
upon  you,  and  you  have  to  listen  to  him.  You  have  to  be  very  attentive.  You  have  to  care, 
you  have  to  love  and  be  compassionate  towards  him;  only  then  you  can  help  him.  He  is 
constantly  throwing  negatively  charged  energy  —  and  you  are  absorbing  it.  In  fact  the 
more  attentively  you  listen,  the  more  you  absorb  it. 

Living  continuously  with  neurotic  and  psychotic  people,  you  start  thinking,  in  an 
unconscious  way,  that  this  is  what  humanity  is.  We  become  by  and  by  like  the  people  we 
live  with,  because  nobody  is  an  island.  So  if  you  are  working  with  sad  people,  you  will 


become  sad.  If  you  are  working  with  happy  people,  you  will  become  happy,  because 
everything  is  infectious.  Neurosis  is  infectious;  suicide  also  is  infectious. 

If  you  live  around  people  who  are  enlightened,  very  aware,  then  something  in  you  starts 
responding  to  this  higher  possibility.  When  you  live  with  people  who  are  very  low, 
abnormally  low,  in  a  perverted  state,  in  a  morbid  state,  then  something  morbid  in  you 
starts  corresponding  and  relating  to  them.  So  to  be  continuously  surrounded  by  in  people, 
is  in  a  way  dangerous,  unless  you  protect  yourself. 

And  there  is  nothing  like  meditation  to  give  you  protection.  Then  you  can  give  more  than 
you  are  giving  and  yet  you  will  remain  unaffected.  You  can  help  more  than  you  are 
helping,  because  the  higher  your  energy,  the  more  is  the  possibility  to  help.  Otherwise  the 
psychiatrist,  the  healer  and  the  healee  are  almost  on  the  same  ground;  maybe  a  little 
difference  of  degrees,  but  the  difference  is  so  small  that  it  is  not  worth  considering. 

The  psychiatrist  can  go  into  madness  very  easily  —  just  a  slight  push,  some  accidental 
thing,  and  he  can  move  into  the  condemned  territory.  People  who  are  neurotic  were  not 
always  neurotic.  Just  two  days  before  they  were  normal  people,  and  again  they  can 
become  normal.  So  normality  and  abnormality  are  not  qualitative  distinctions  —  just 
quantitative:  ninety-nine  degrees,  one  hundred  degrees,  one  hundred  and  one  degrees  — 
that  type  of  difference. 

In  fact  in  a  better  world,  every  psychiatrist  should  be  trained  deeply  in  meditation, 
otherwise  he  should  not  be  allowed  to  practise.  That  is  the  only  way  that  you  can  protect 
yourself  and  not  be  vulnerable  —  and  you  can  really  help.  Otherwise  even  great 
psychiatrists,  great  psychoanalysts,  even  they  become  in  a  way  very  hopeless  about 
humanity...  even  Freud.  After  a  whole  life's  experience  he  finally  said  that  he  could  not 
hope  for  man;  he  felt  hopeless.  And  it  is  natural  —  forty  years  of  being  with  people  who 
are  in  a  mess,  the  only  experience  of  humanity  being  of  people  who  are  mad.  By  and  by  it 
started  to  look  to  him  as  if  abnormality  is  normal...  as  if  man  is  bound  to  remain  neurotic, 
as  if  there  is  something  natural  in  man  which  drives  him  towards  neurosis. 

So  at  the  most  the  healthy  person  is  one  who  is  a  little  more  adjusted  to  the  world,  that's 
all.  Adjustment  becomes  the  standard  of  health,  but  it  cannot  be.  If  the  whole  society  is 
mad  you  can  be  adjusted  to  it  and  you  will  Still  be  mad.  In  fact  in  a  mad  society,  a  person 
who  is  not  mad  will  be  maladjusted.  And  that's  what  is  really  the  case. 

When  a  Jesus  walks  in  this  world  he  is  maladjusted.  We  have  to  crucify  him.  He  is  such  a 
stranger  —  we  cannot  tolerate  him.  His  very  presence  becomes  unbearable.  We  have  to 
kill  him.  We  are  not  concerned  with  him,  we  are  simply  concerned  with  ourselves. 
Because  of  his  presence,  only  two  things  are  possible  either  he  is  mad  or  we  are  mad. 
Both  cannot  be  healthy.  We  are  many  and  he  is  alone.  Of  course  we  kill  him;  he  cannot 
kill  us. 

When  a  Buddha  walks,  he  looks  strange  a  healthy  man,  a  really  natural,  normal  man, 
moving  in  an  abnormal  society.  So  Freud  came  to  conclude  that  there  is  no  future  for 
humanity.  At  the  most  we  can  hope  that  man  can  be  adjusted  with  the  social  pattern, 
that's  all.  But  there  is  no  possibility  for  man  to  be  blissful.  It  cannot  be  by  the  very  nature 
of  things.  Why  such  a  pessimistic  conclusion?  —  because  of  his  whole  experience. 

Freud's  whole  life  is  a  long  nightmare  of  mad  people,  of  working  with  them.  And  by  and 
by  he  himself  became  abnormal.  He  was  not  really  healthy.  He  was  not  a  blissful  person. 
He  had  never  known  what  wholeness  is.  He  was  afraid  of  small  things  —  so  much  so  that 
it  looks  absurd.  He  was  afraid  of  death.  If  somebody  talked  about  ghosts,  he  would  start 


perspiring.  Twice  he  fainted  because  somebody  started  talking  about  death!  This  seems  to 
be  a  very  unbalanced  mind,  but  in  a  way  it  can  be  accounted  for.  Even  this  is  a  miracle  — 
that  he  remained  sane  for  his  whole  life. 

One  of  the  most  penetrating  psychiatrists,  Wilhelm  Reich,  went  mad.  And  the  only  reason 
that  he  went  mad  and  others  have  not,  was  because  he  was  really  penetrating.  He  had  a 
really  deep  talent  to  go  into  the  roots  of  things  —  but  it  is  dangerous.  Freud  or  Reich  or 
others'  whole  life  shows  one  thing  —  that  had  they  been  trained  in  deep  meditation,  the 
whole  world  would  have  been  different.  Then  these  neurotic  people  would  not  become 
the  standard. 

Maybe  it  is  very  difficult  to  become  a  Buddha,  but  he  is  the  norm.  And  a  normal  person  is 
one  who  comes  closer  to  the  norm.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  adjustment.  One  comes 
closer  to  the  idea  of  wholeness,  happiness,  health. 

Start  a  little  meditation.  And  whenever  you  can  come,  for  at  least  six,  seven  weeks,  be 
here.  It  will  be  helpful  in  your  work. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I've  been  feeling  very  dissociated  lately  from  people  and  just  from  the 
world  —  and  feeling  good  inside.] 

That's  the  only  thing  to  care  for.  If  you  are  feeling  good  inside,  then  there  is  nothing  to  be 
worried  about.  And  soon  you  will  start  feeling  good  with  people  and  with  the  world  also, 
because  a  person  who  is  at  ease  with  himself  cannot  remain  in  any  way  out  of  the  world 
and  far  away  from  the  world.  That  at-easement  starts  overflowing.  It  needs  just  a  certain 
amount  to  collect.  Then  you  will  be  overflowing  because  you  cannot  contain  it  any  more. 
When  you  overflow,  you  connect  with  people  —  and  that's  beautiful. 

So  never  enforce.  Just  wait  for  the  right  moment.  It  happens  on  its  own.  If  you  are  not 
feeling  good  with  yourself,  then  there  is  a  problem.  You  may  be  feeling  good  with  others 
and  not  feeling  good  with  yourself.  Then  the  problem  is  there,  because  it  is  impossible  to 
feel  really  good  with  others  if  you  are  not  feeling  good  with  yourself;  then  it  may  just  be 
an  escape.  Because  you  don't  feel  good  with  yourself,  you  go  and  mix  and  mingle  with 
people  —  to  forget.  Then  it  is  just  a  trick,  a  game,  a  gimmick  —  and  dangerous. 

You  don't  want  to  face  yourself  and  you  don't  want  to  face  your  emptiness;  you  don't 
want  to  face  your  inner  uneasiness.  So  the  easiest  and  cheapest  way  is  to  forget  yourself 
somewhere  in  some  activity,  some  occupation,  society,  friends,  this  and  that,  so  by  the 
time  you  come  home  you  are  ready  to  fall  asleep.  In  the  morning  you  again  rush  into  the 
world,  into  the  marketplace,  so  again  you  need  not  look  into  your  own  self.  A  person  who 
is  not  feeling  good  with  himself  is  always  escaping  from  himself,  avoiding  colliding  with 
himself;  avoiding  his  own  company.  That  man  is  always  afraid  of  being  left  alone. 

If  you  leave  him  alone,  he  will  do  something.  He  will  turn  on  the  radio  or  the  TV  or  he 
will  start  reading  the  newspaper.  Maybe  the  same  newspaper  which  he  has  read  twice, 
thrice,  he  will  start  reading  again,  knowing  that  he  has  read  it,  but  unable  to  remain 
without  activity.  He  will  start  doing  something  or  other  because  that  is  his  only  way  to 
avoid  his  inner  emptiness.  So  people  go  on  being  engaged  in  a  thousand  and  one  things. 
They  are  all  ill  people. 

The  basic  thing  is  to  be  at  ease  with  oneself.  Then  everything  will  follow  on  its  own 
accord.  So  just  feel  good  and  don't  bother  to  enforce  anything;  don't  try  to  go  and  mix 
with  people.  This  must  be  a  seed  time.  So  just  become  a  seed  and  remain  in  yourself, 


happy,  alive.  The  seed  cannot  remain  in  itself  for  long  —  it  has  to  sprout.  When  you  are 
too  full  of  at-easeness,  you  will  start  sharing  it.  One  has  to  share,  otherwise  one's  own 
energy  becomes  a  burden.  But  then  it  is  beautiful  when  you  have  to  share.  Then  you  are 
not  avoiding  and  you  are  not  obliging  anybody.  You  are  simply  so  full  of  energy  that  you 
would  like  somebody  to  share  it.  You  feel  grateful  when  somebody  accepts  you  in  any 
way;  you  feel  grateful  because  you  had  so  much  that  it  was  throbbing,  and  it  has  to  be 
released. 

So  just  wait.  The  first  step  has  happened.  The  second  will  happen  of  its  own  accord;  you 
need  not  be  worried  about  it. 

[A  sannyasin  says:...  when  I  talk  to  people,  I  feel  my  eyes  drawn  upwards. 

Osho  checks  her  energy.] 

Good.  Allow  it.  The  energy  is  pulling  your  eyes  upwards  towards  the  third  eye,  and  it  is  a 
very  good  indication.  It  will  feel  a  little  strange  and  sometimes  even  embarrassing 
because  when  you  are  talking  to  somebody  and  suddenly  your  eyes  go  up,  it  feels 
difficult,  it  looks  awkward.  But  you  have  to  allow  it.  I  think  it  will  be  there  for  not  more 
than  three  weeks.  But  if  you  don't  allow  it,  it  will  linger  on  for  a  longer  period. 

So  for  three  weeks,  simply  allow  it.  When  you  are  simply  sitting,  just  close  your  eyes  and 
try  to  look  inside  in  the  third  eye,  just  between  the  two  eyebrows.  I  have  marked  the  place 
exactly  where  it  is.  Do  that  twice,  thrice  a  day,  and  within  three  weeks  it  will  calm  down. 
Then  you  will  feel  suddenly  as  if  a  great  tension  has  disappeared  from  your  eyes.  You 
will  start  feeling  some  trembling  in  the  third  eye  —  which  is  tremendously  beautiful. 

And  have  you  tried  that  meditation  I  gave  you  —  moving  like  a  dog  and  panting?  [see 
Beloved  of  my  Heart,  May  24th,  19761 

[She  answers:  Yes,  sometimes.  If  I  built  up  a  lot  of  energy  I  would  do  it.] 

This  has  happened  because  of  that.  Animals  have  more  energy  moving  into  their  third  eye 
because  their  whole  body  is  horizontal.  Man  is  standing  vertically.  The  energy  moves 
against  gravitation  and  it  is  very  difficult  for  it  to  go  higher.  It  even  goes  up  to  the  eyes 
only  with  great  difficulty.  For  the  third  eye  to  open,  a  tremendous  rush  is  needed.  That's 
why  many  yoga  schools  use  shirshasan  —  standing  on  the  head  —  to  create  a  rush  of 
energy.  But  I  don't  like  that  very  much,  because  the  rush  can  be  too  much.  It  has  to  be 
suggested  only  in  rare  cases,  otherwise  it  can  destroy  many  very  subtle  nerves.  And  once 
they  are  destroyed,  it  is  very  difficult  to  reproduce  them;  they  are  gone  forever.  A  person 
can  attain  to  the  third  eye  insight  but  he  becomes  dull  as  far  as  other  kinds  of 
intelligences  are  concerned. 

But  moving  like  an  animal  is  very  beautiful.  Then  there  is  not  too  much  of  a  rush  of 
energy  —  neither  too  much  nor  too  little.  It  is  exactly  proportionate.  And  when  you  are 
moving  like  a  dog  and  panting,  panting  helps  the  throat  centre.  The  throat  centre  is  just 
near  the  third  eye  centre;  the  third  eye  centre  is  just  above  the  throat  centre.  So  once  the 
throat  centre  starts  functioning,  energy  starts  moving  from  the  throat  centre  to  the  third 
eye  centre.  So  whenever  you  feel  like  it,  continue.  It  is  very  very  significant.  It  will  bring 
many  changes  of  which  you  may  not  even  be  aware,  but  they  will  come  by  and  by. 
Animals  live  in  a  totally  different  world,  and  the  whole  reason  that  they  live  in  a  totally 
different  world  is  because  of  their  horizontal  spine.  Man  has  become  separate  from  the 


animal  world  because  of  his  vertical  spine.  It  is  good  sometimes  to  become  an  animal 
again.  It  again  gives  you  a  deep  contact  with  the  whole  past,  with  the  whole  heritage. 

Then  you  are  no  more  something  apart.  You  are  part  of  the  whole  animal  kingdom. 

It  releases  many  spontaneous  energies  in  you,  and  you  will  start  being  less  worried.  You 
will  think  less,  you  will  be  more  just  like  animals.  They  are  just  there  —  not  thinking  of 
the  past,  not  thinking  of  the  present,  not  thinking  of  the  future.  They  are  just  there,  right 
now...  perfectly  alert,  ready  to  respond,  but  with  no  idea. 

So  don't  be  worried.  Continue  the  dog  exercise,  and  once  that  centre  has  got  enough 
energy,  then  the  eyes  will  come  back.  Good. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I'm  losing  my  expectations.  I  expected  to  be  very  different  here.  I 
expected  great  progress  to  be  made...  to  be  more  meditative.  I  thought  great  things  would 
happen  to  me,  but  I  feel,  if  anything,  that  I  have  more  bad  habits,  more  problems.  In  fact 
bad  habits  I  haven't  had  for  three,  four  years,  have  come  again. 

I  feel  those  expectations  are  going  to  go  if  I  can  drop  them  —  and  maybe  I  can.] 

This  is  the  great  thing  that  has  happened  —  that  you  are  ready  to  drop  the  expectation. 

That  is  the  greatest  thing  that  can  happen  to  a  person,  the  greatest  progress  that  can  be 
made. 

The  human  mind  is  so  stupid,  it  goes  on  expecting.  It  exists  through  expectations.  It  is  a 
great  moment  if  you  can  really  drop  all  expectations.  And  when  all  expectations  are 
dropped,  then  anything  that  you  have  repressed  in  the  past  will  come  back.  You  call  them 
bad  habits.  Your  very  word,  the  choice  of  the  word,  says  that  you  must  have  repressed 
them.  You  may  not  have  been  able  to  accept  them,  so  you  rejected  them. 

Now  when  expectations  are  falling  and  you  are  becoming  natural,  all  those  rejected, 
disclaimed  parts  will  again  claim.  They  would  like  to  be  absorbed  in  your  being.  They  are 
yours.  You  have  been  trying  to  forget  them.  You  have  been  throwing  them  into  the 
basement  But  now,  when  you  are  becoming  natural,  they  will  say  'Let  us  also  come  back 
home.'  So  please  don't  call  them  bad  any  more,  otherwise  you  will  again  repress  them. 

I'm  not  saying  that  they  are  going  to  remain  with  you.  If  they  are  really  bad,  they  will 
disappear.  You  need  not  call  them  bad.  A  man  who  has  no  expectations  cannot  be  bad. 

He  can  only  be  natural  —  and  whatsoever  is  natural,  is  good.  To  be  natural  is  to  be  good. 
They  are  synonymous  to  me.  I  don't  have  any  other  idea  of  good  beyond  being  natural.  If 
your  goodness  goes  against  nature,  it  is  bad.  If  your  badness  goes  with  nature,  it  is  good. 
That's  what  my  morality  is.  That's  what  my  whole  standpoint  is. 

Somewhere  you  have  been  wrong  in  your  interpretations  —  calling  something  bad.  If  it 
goes  with  your  nature,  it  is  good  —  whatsoever  it  is.  If  it  does  not  go  with  your  nature, 
there  is  no  need  to  repress  it;  it  will  drop  on  its  own  accord.  Just  be  natural.  By  and  by 
you  will  see  that  it  is  disappearing.  Maybe  it  was  there  because  you  were  repressing  it. 
This  is  the  greatest  thing  that  can  happen  to  a  person.  It  has  happened.  Your  expectations 
are  fulfilled.  Now  drop  them!  And  just  be  natural.  Love  and  enjoy  life.  There  is  no  need 
to  fight.  And  nothing  is  bad  —  maybe  small  human  weaknesses,  but  nothing  is  bad. 

This  is  my  observation  —  that  people  who  have  a  few  human  weaknesses  are  very  good 
people.  If  you  live  with  them,  you  will  enjoy  them.  People  who  are  inhumanly  good  are 
unbearable.  You  cannot  live  with  them  —  they  will  crush  you.  Their  very  presence  is 


ugly,  heavy.  They  will  turn  you  into  a  thing.  Their  very  gaze  will  reduce  you,  and  you 
will  feel  like  a  worm  because  their  whole  mind  will  be  condemnatory. 

It  is  very  difficult  to  live  with  saints.  It  is  very  good  to  remain  far  away  and  pay  your 
respects  and  say  goodbye,  but  never  come  too  close.  And  if  you  cannot  live  with  a  saint, 
what  type  of  sainthood  is  this? 

The  real  saint  is  one  with  whom  you  can  be,  and  not  for  a  single  moment  are  you 
reminded  of  your  weaknesses.  In  fact  you  tend  to  forget  that  he  is  a  saint.  He  is  so  human, 
so  accepting,  so  non-condemning,  that  you  think  that  he  is  just  a  friend,  a  brother  at  the 
most  a  companion,  but  not  a  saint  sitting  high  in  the  heavens  and  looking  at  you,  trying  to 
reduce  you  to  something  condemned. 

I  would  not  like  you  to  become  a  saint.  Be  human  —  with  all  the  human  weaknesses.  And 
love  it!  You  will  be  more  relaxed  and  God  will  love  you  more  because  He  will  enjoy  you 
more.  I  have  been  trying  very  hard  but  I  cannot  think  how  God  can  enjoy  all  those  so- 
called  saints.  He  must  be  bored  to  death!  [laughter]  Just  think  of  your  saints  all 
surrounding  God.  If  He  is  not  dead,  then  He  must  have  committed  suicide.  He  would  like 
to  love  with  human  beings. 

So  just  be  human.  That's  a  great  enough  goal.  And  accept  small  things.  Nothing's  wrong. 
And  this  is  very  good  that  expectations  are  disappearing.  So  you  are  coming  home. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #9 
Chapter  title:  None 

29  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608295 
ShortTitle:  PASSIO09 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[A  sannyasin  says  she  is  confused  because  she  sometimes  feels  lower  than  ever  before:  It 
begins  with  the  fact  that  I  don't  feel  anybody  loves  me  or  that  I'm  worthy  of  being  loved. 
This  happened  last  night,  and  I'm  very  frightened  of  having  that  experience  for  a  long 
time  when  I'm  alone.] 

Sometimes  it  happens  that  you  can  be  more  confused  here  than  anywhere  else  because  a 
possibility  for  fusion  exists  here.  If  you  absorb  me  rightly,  if  you  understand  me  and  what 
I  am  saying  and  what  I  am  being  here,  if  you  digest  it,  it  becomes  a  fusion  in  you.  It 
becomes  an  integral  part  of  you.  It  becomes  your  insight.  Then  it  has  nothing  to  do  with 
me. 

It  is  just  as  if  you  take  fruit  from  the  tree  and  you  eat  it.  It  is  absorbed,  circulates  in  your 
blood,  moves  in  your  muscles,  has  become  part  of  your  body.  Just  a  few  hours  before,  it 
was  part  of  the  tree.  Just  a  few  hours  before,  it  was  the  other.  Now  it  is  no  more  the  other 
—  it  is  you.  It  has  entered  your  boundary.  It  is  fused  in  you.  This  is  what  I  mean  by  fusion. 
If  you  don't  understand  me,  if  you  are  not  rightly  digesting  me,  then  there  will  be 
confusion.  Confusion  simply  shows  that  so  many  things  are  bombarding  you  and  you  are 
not  able  to  digest  them.  It  creates  an  indigestion  —  indigestion  in  the  head,  indigestion  in 


your  psyche...  a  psychic  disturbance.  So  there  is  more  possibility  here  than  anywhere 
else,  because  the  more  possibility  there  is  for  fusion,  simultaneously  the  more  possibility 
there  is  of  confusion. 

If  you  don't  eat  anything,  there  cannot  be  indigestion.  Or  if  you  eat  just  the  minimum  — 
that  which  is  enough  for  survival  —  there  will  be  no  indigestion.  But  if  rich  food  is 
available,  very  vital  food  is  available  and  you  eat  too  much  of  it....  And  that  happens.  If  a 
person  has  been  starving  for  many  days  and  then  rich  food  becomes  available,  he  simply 
cannot  stop  himself.  He  goes  on  eating. 

When  you  come  to  me,  you  come  in  a  starved  state  —  not  of  the  body  but  of  the  mind. 
Then  I  am  available  here.  It  creates  indigestion  and  one  feels  confused,  but  nothing  to  be 
worried  about.  It  simply  shows  that  you  will  have  to  find  a  way  to  absorb  me. 

Another  problem  is  also  there  and  you  know  it;  you  have  rightly  pinpointed  it  —  that  you 
have  a  certain  wrong  notion  that  for  love  one  first  has  to  be  worthy.  That  is  absolutely 
absurd.  Then  nobody  will  be  able  to  love,  and  nobody  will  ever  feel  worthy. 

Love  is  nothing  like  that.  Nothing  more  is  required  but  you.  Worth  is  not  significant. 
Whether  you  are  worthy  or  not  is  not  a  question  for  love.  As  you  are,  you  can  become  a 
love  object,  but  from  your  childhood  you  have  been  wrongly  conditioned.  Every  child  is 
wrongly  conditioned  because  parents  go  on  using  this  need  of  the  child  —  the  need  to  be 
loved,  the  need  to  be  hugged,  the  need  to  be  cuddled.  They  use  it  as  a  technique  to 
educate  him.  They  exploit  this  need.  They  are  in  trouble  as  to  what  else  they  can  do  and 
how  to  educate  the  child,  so  they  make  a  bargain  with  him. 

They  say,  'If  you  do  things  we  like  you  to  do,  then  we  will  love  you.  You  have  to  deserve 
it.  If  you  are  good  in  the  school,  if  you  are  good  in  the  house,  if  you  are  good  with  the 
neighbours,  with  the  guests,  with  your  mother,  with  your  father,  then  you  will  receive 
love.  If  you  are  not  good,  if  you  are  not  worthy,  then  you  will  starve.  We  will  not  love 
you;  we  will  withdraw  ourselves.' 

And  the  need  of  the  child  is  so  much.  It  is  just  like  food.  He  cannot  survive  without  food, 
and  he  cannot  survive  without  love.  In  fact  the  need  for  love  is  even  deeper  than  food, 
because  without  food,  only  his  body  will  wither  away;  without  love,  his  very  soul. 

So  the  child  has  to  compromise.  He  cannot  say,  'Just  love  me  as  I  am.'  He  cannot  demand 
that  —  and  even  if  he  demands,  nobody  is  going  to  supply  it.  So  by  and  by  he  has  to  force 
himself  to  do  things  which  he  never  wanted  to  do,  which  he  does  not  like  to  do.  But  there 
is  a  bait  —  that  he  can  get  love;  mother's  love,  father's  love,  brother's  love.  They  will 
approve  of  him,  they  will  make  him  worthy.  So  he  works  hard  in  the  school,  he  tries  to  be 
dutiful.  He  tries  to  fetch  a  little  more  love  from  you,  and  then  he  learns  something  which 
is  very  dangerous.  He  learns  that  unless  you  are  worthy,  you  will  never  be  loved. 

Now  this  is  absurd.  It  is  as  if  somebody  is  saying  'Unless  you  are  worthy,  you  will  never 
breathe.'  It  is  just  as  irrelevant.  You  are  breathing  whether  you  are  worthy  or  not. 

Whether  you  are  a  saint  or  a  sinner,  you  breathe  the  same.  Can't  you  see  that  life  goes  on 
giving  itself  to  everybody  without  any  conditions?  The  sun  shines  on  the  sinner  and  the 
saint  alike.  There  is  no  distinction.  The  clouds  come  and  shower  on  each  and  every  body 
with  no  distinction. 

Life  is  available.  You  are  not  to  earn  it.  You  are  not  to  make  yourself  in  some  way 
capable  of  having  it;  it  is  already  available.  It  is  available  as  grace,  as  a  gift.  Love  is  a 
gift.  But  parents  down  the  centuries  have  corrupted  it.  But  they  are  not  at  fault  —  their 
parents  corrupted  them.  So  it  is  such  a  vicious  chain  that  you  cannot  find  out  who  the 


culprit  is.  And  if  you  go  down  and  down,  finally  you  will  find  God  as  the  culprit,  because 
He  was  the  first  parent.  He  told  Adam  and  Eve,  'Unless  you  obey  me,  I  am  going  to  throw 
you  out  of  your  happiness.  I  am  going  to  throw  you  out  of  this  heaven,  this  paradise.  Be 
obedient!  Be  worthy!  Only  then  can  you  live  here.'  Since  then  every  parent  has  been 
doing  that.  And  every  child  is  afraid  —  his  paradise  may  be  lost. 

But  now  you  are  a  grown-up.  You  can  look  back  at  the  whole  thing.  You  can  contemplate 
upon  it.  There  is  no  need  to  remain  confined  by  this  conditioning.  Just  by  being  aware  of 
it,  you  will  be  free  of  it.  Nothing  else  is  needed  because  it  is  an  absolutely  false  idea.  It  is 
as  if  somebody  has  taught  you  that  two  plus  two  is  five,  so  whenever  you  put  two  with 
two,  you  make  five.  Then  suddenly  today  I  tell  you  that  it  is  not  five.  How  can  it  be  five? 
You  understand  then  that  yes,  two  plus  two  cannot  be  five;  they  can  only  be  four.  The 
moment  you  become  aware  that  some  wrong  notion  has  been  there,  the  very  awareness 
helps  you  to  drop  it.  Next  time  you  will  make  four,  not  five.  It  is  just  that  easy. 

All  these  unconscious  conditionings  exist  only  because  you  are  not  aware  of  them.  So 
whatsoever  the  problem  is,  try  to  become  aware  of  it,  of  the  whole  process  from  the  very 
beginning  up  to  now.  There  is  no  need  to  be  worthy  of  love.  In  fact  exactly  the  reverse  is 
true.  The  more  you  love,  the  more  you  are  loved,  the  more  worthy  you  become.  Love 
makes  you  worthy.  The  moment  somebody  loves  you,  he  has  started  transforming  you. 
Just  the  very  look  of  two  loving  eyes  on  you,  and  suddenly  you  are  no  more  the  same. 

You  start  opening,  you  start  flowing...  you  are  exhilarated,  you  are  ecstatic.  For  the  first 
time  you  feel  the  thrill  of  being  alive  and  you  start  doing  things  that  you  had  never  done 
before.  Love  makes  people  worthy  —  that's  my  attitude.  So  I  am  not  going  to  tell  you  to 
first  become  worthy.  It  is  not  a  business.  Just  love! 

And  the  second  thing  to  be  understood  —  never  think  in  terms  of  others  having  to  love 
you.  That  again  is  a  wrong  attitude;  that  again  is  rooted  in  your  wrong  childhood.  A  child 
simply  waits  to  be  loved.  And  of  course  it  is  natural  for  a  child,  because  how  can  the 
child-love?  A  one-day-old  child  —  how  can  he  love?  He  cannot  even  hold  the  mother's 
hand.  He  cannot  even  fix  his  eyes  on  the  mother;  everything  is  blurred.  He  does  not  know 
who  the  mother  is  and  who  is  who.  How  can  you  expect  him  to  love?  He  simply  gets 
love. 

By  and  by  he  learns  one  thing  —  that  others  have  to  love  him.  This  is  wrong;  good  in 
childhood,  but  one  has  to  go  beyond  it  —  then  only  you  become  an  adult.  A  man  becomes 
adult  the  day  he  starts  feeling  that  now  he  has  to  love.  It  is  not  a  question  of  somebody 
loving  him. 

So  why  be  a  beggar?  You  are  no  more  a  child.  You  are  behaving  in  a  childish  pattern. 
Start  loving.  Go  out  of  the  way  to  love.  And  the  more  you  love,  the  more  you  will  see  that 
more  people  are  coming  to  you  to  love  you,  because  love  attracts  love  just  as  hatred 
attracts  hatred.  If  you  hate,  people  will  hate  you.  If  you  love,  people  will  love  you.  But 
don't  be  bothered  about  whether  others  are  loving  you  or  not.  Just  love.  Love  is  such  a 
joyous  activity  —  who  bothers  whether  something  returns  or  not?  It  is  just  like  singing. 
You  sing  and  enjoy.  If  somebody  claps,  good.  If  nobody  claps,  that  is  their  business.  You 
enjoyed  it  all  the  same. 

So  start  loving,  and  love  will  be  coming.  By  loving  and  being  loved,  you  will  become 
worthy;  that's  my  arithmetic.  You  have  tried  your  arithmetic;  it  has  failed.  Give  me  a 
chance. 


And  the  fusion  will  come.  I  don't  see  any  problem.  Your  whole  confusion  is  with  your 
childhood  and  here  it  becomes  very  very  focused.  Listening  to  me  your  desire  becomes 
aflame.  Then  you  start  longing  for  the  stars  —  and  good;  that's  good!  Because  I  say  that 
religion  is  the  passion  for  the  impossible. 

A  person  becomes  religious  only  when  he  starts  longing  for  the  impossible  —  that  which 
never  seems  possible  but  still  happens.  With  intense  passion  it  becomes  Possible.  So 
when  you  are  close  to  me,  you  start  becoming  aflame.  You  become  very  ambitious  for 
the  unknown,  for  love,  for  prayer,  for  meditation,  for  God,  and  then  suddenly  all  your 
limitations....  You  feel  all  your  boundaries.  You  feel,  for  the  first  time,  imprisoned  — 
hence  the  confusion.  It  is  as  if  somebody  has  lived  in  a  prison  and  has  completely 
forgotten  what  freedom  is.  Then  somebody  sings  a  song  about  freedom,  and  his  fast 
asleep  desire,  almost  oblivious,  again  surges  up,  surfaces,  comes  to  the  conscious  mind, 
and  he  realises  that  he  is  a  prisoner. 

Up  to  now  he  was  completely  oblivious  of  the  fact.  He  was  thinking  that  this  prison  was 
his  home.  He  had  been  decorating  it.  He  had  made  a  beautiful  thing  out  of  it.  He  had 
learned  to  live  in  it.  He  was  thinking  the  guard  is  his  protector  and  the  gaoler  is  his  friend. 
He  had  started  feeling  that  this  gaol  was  a  security  and  that  he  was  absolutely  protected 
against  the  enemy  world...  or  something  like  this.  And  he  was  at  ease. 

Now  suddenly  someone  comes  —  a  bard  who  can  sing  about  freedom,  who  can  dance 
freedom...  whose  eyes  have  a  glow  of  freedom,  whose  every  movement  brings  a  taste  of 
the  open  sky.  His  very  breath  is  fragrant  with  freedom.  He  has  brought  the  contrast  —  and 
the  confusion.  Now  this  prisoner  can  never  be  at  ease  again.  But  good!  —  because  that  is 
the  only  way  for  him  to  get  out  of  the  prison. 

So  something  has  become  very  very  clear  to  you.  Now  do  something  about  it.  If  you  don't 
do  anything,  the  confusion  will  remain  and  it  will  become  a  chaotic  mess.  By  doing 
something  you  will  be  able  to  absorb  whatsoever  you  have  felt  here  and  whatsoever  you 
have  heard  here.  So  the  three  things... 

One  —  start  loving,  and  don't  ask  for  love.  Love  will  be  coming  as  a  natural  consequence; 
one  can  forget  all  about  it.  Don't  think  in  terms  of  first  being  worthy.  Nobody  is.  If  love 
has  to  be  earned,  nobody  is  worthy.  It  is  a  grace.  It  is  a  gift.  It  comes  to  you  because  the 
whole  existence  is  full  of  love.  It  is  not  because  you  are  capable  of  it,  not  because  you 
have  some  worth  that  it  has  come  to  you.  No,  it  comes  to  you  because  the  whole 
existence  is  full  of  it. 

It  is  not  the  worthy  earth  on  which  the  clouds  are  raining  just  now.  They  are  raining 
because  they  have  too  much.  What  to  do  with  it?  Yes,  after  raining  the  earth  will  become 
more  worthy.  It  will  become  alive  with  new  life.  New  trees  will  come  up...  new  flowers 
will  bloom  —  but  that  is  a  consequence.  It  is  not  that  this  earth  has  in  any  way  earned 
these  clouds.  The  clouds  were  there  and  were  too  burdened.  They  have  to  release 
themselves. 

The  whole  existence  is  full  of  love.  Existence  is  made  of  the  stuff  we  call  love.  It  is  just 
like  air  surrounding  you.  You  just  breathe  in  and  it  goes  on.  So  forget  about  worthiness. 
Start  loving,  and  you  will  see  that  love  is  coming,  flowing.  It  comes  one  thousand  fold. 
Just  share,  and  continue  to  meditate.  Whatsoever  you  have  heard  and  felt  with  me  will 
soon  come  to  a  fusion.  The  confusion  will  disappear.... 


[A  sannyas  couple  came  about  their  relationship.  The  woman  was  unsure  about  their 
relationship,  as  sometimes  she  felt  very  much  in  love,  other  times  she  felt  bored.  She 
added  that  she  also  felt  attracted  to  other  men. 

Her  partner  said  for  his  part  that  he  was  very  much  in  love.  Some  moments  were  better 
than  others,  but  he  felt  that  was  just  normal.] 

[to  the  woman]  Mm  ...  a  few  things  to  be  understood.  First  —  because  you  are  divided, 
your  love  cannot  be  the  same  and  constantly  the  same.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  your  love 
object,  with  your  boyfriend.  It  has  something  to  do  with  you. 

Sometimes  you  feel  very  loving  and  sometimes  you  feel  bored.  That  simply  shows  your 
two  aspects,  because  if  he  is  boring,  then  he  is  boring  for  twenty-four  hours;  he  is  himself 
for  twenty-four  hours.  If  he  is  not  boring  and  he  is  very  beautiful,  then  he  is  beautiful, 
because  he  is  always  the  same  person. 

Something  inside  you  changes,  just  like  day  and  night.  So  when  you  feel  bored  with  him, 
look  deep  inside  —  you  must  be  feeling  bored  with  yourself.  When  you  feel  beautiful  with 
him,  look  inside  —  you  must  be  feeling  beautiful  with  yourself.  In  fact  we  go  on 
projecting  on  ,the  other'.  Whatsoever  happens,  happens  on  the  inside.  The  other  functions 
as  a  screen,  and  we  project.  When  you  are  feeling  beautiful,  then  he  looks  beautiful.  It  is 
your  eyes  which  are  full  of  beauty  and  they  reflect  in  his  being.  When  you  are  bored,  he 
looks  boring. 

You  can  watch  a  full  moon.  If  you  are  bored,  the  full  moon  will  look  boring.  If  you  are 
sad,  the  full  moon  will  look  sad.  If  you  are  happy  and  ecstatic,  you  will  find  the  moon  so 
beautiful,  so  ecstatic. 

And  of  course  it  reflects  the  most  in  the  person  you  love,  because  he  is  closer  to  you.  He 
functions  like  a  mirror. 

So  make  it  a  point  to  meditate.  And  look  inside.  You  can  change  your  lover  from  A  to  B, 
from  B  to  C,  but  the  same  will  happen  again  and  again  with  everybody.  So  the  problem 
has  to  be  tackled  from  within  you.  By  changing  the  lover  it  is  not  going  to  be  changed.  It 
is  just  like  changing  the  screen  when  the  projector  and  the  screen  are  the  same.  So  you 
can  change  the  screen  —  maybe  a  better  screen,  a  bigger  screen,  a  wider  screen,  but  it  is 
not  going  to  make  any  substantial  difference,  because  the  projector  is  the  same  and  the 
film  is  the  same. 

You  are  the  projector  and  you  are  the  film,  so  again  you  will  project  the  same  things  on  a 
different  screen.  The  screen  is  almost  irrelevant.  Once  you  understand  this,  then  you  can 
see  the  whole  life  as  maya,  as  a  magic  show.  Then  everything  is  inside;  the  problem  is 
not  outside.  Nothing  has  to  be  done  there.  So  first  one  has  to  realise  that  it  is  oneself;  then 
the  whole  problem  shifts  and  comes  to  the  right  place  from  where  it  can  be  tackled  and 
solved.  Otherwise  you  can  go  on  looking  in  wrong  directions;  there  is  no  possibility  for 
any  change. 

[Osho  said  that  many  people  keep  changing  their  partners  but  time  and  again  they  choose 
a  similar  type  of  person,  because  they  have  certain  criterions  of  beauty  and  what  is 
attractive  and  they  look  for  them  in  each  potential  lover.  The  West  is  caught  up  in  the 
illusion  that  if  the  external  is  changed,  so  will  be  the  problem,  hence  the  changing  of 
partners,  cars,  houses.] 


The  second  thing:  when  you  are  feeling  bored,  don't  relate  to  him,  because  that  is 
destructive.  When  one  is  feeling  bored,  one  should  drop  out  of  all  relationship,  otherwise 
those  moments  are  going  to  be  destructive.  When  you  are  feeling  bored,  just  close  your 
room,  sit  silently,  meditate.  Use  those  moments  with  yourself.  If  you  are  feeling  bored, 
then  feel  bored  with  yourself;  that  is  your  right.  To  feel  bored  with  somebody  is  violent 
because  you  will  show  in  every  way  that  you  are  bored.  Somehow  deep  down  you  will  go 
on  condemning  him,  thinking  it  is  he  who  is  boring  you.  You  may  say  so,  you  may  not, 
but  in  every  way  you  will  show  'You  are  boring  me'.  And  that  becomes  poisoning.  Don't' 
poison  any  relationship,  never.  Only  beautiful  moments  are  to  be  shared.  Then  a 
relationship  goes  deeper  and  deeper,  higher  and  higher. 

[Osho  said  that  whenever  one  is  feeling  bored  it  is  good  to  tell  the  other  that  you  are  not 
feeling  good,  and  just  to  be  alone.] 

The  human  animal  is  the  only  animal  who  feels  bored.  It  is  a  very  very  intelligent  thing. 

It  is  not  ordinary.  Buffaloes  are  not  bored,  donkeys  are  not  bored.  They  are  never  bored, 
because  for  boredom  a  certain  level  of  intelligence  is  needed.  Only  man  is  bored.  In  man 
also,  only  people  who  are  really  intelligent  are  bored,  rather  than  people  who  are  stupid. 
That's  why  very  intelligent  people  sometimes  commit  suicide  —  very  intelligent  people. 
Stupid  people  don't  commit  suicide.  They  don't  have  any  boredom.  They  live  happily  in  a 
way.  Their  happiness  is  shallow,  but  they  are  happy  in  a  way.  In  ordinary  things  they  are 
happy.  Smoking  cigarettes,  they  are  happy.  Sitting  in  a  movie,  they  are  happy.  Reading 
the  newspaper  —  the  same  news  every  day  —  they  are  happy,  ether, ing  love,  going  to  the 
office,  they  are  happy.  So  nothing  is  wrong  in  it.  It  is  simply  an  indication  that  the 
repetition  makes  you  bored.  So  go  into  it.  Use  moments  of  boredom,  sadness,  depression, 
for  meditation,  to  be  with  yourself,  and  soon  you  will  see  that  you  become  capable  of 
getting  out  of  them. 

And  when  you  are  feeling  beautiful,  happy,  when  you  are  full  of  euphoria,  bubbling,  only 
then  relate,  because  then  you  have  something  to  share.  Then  love  him,  call  him.  Sit 
together,  sing  together,  dance  together,  love  each  other.  Go  for  a  morning  walk.  Sit  under 
the  stars  or  on  the  beach,  because  now  you  are  overflowing  and  you  need  somebody  to 
share  it  with. 

When  you  are  happy,  that  means  you  want  somebody  else  also  to  be  with  you.  That's  the 
meaning  of  happiness.  It  has  an  intrinsic  flow  of  sharing.  So  when  you  are  feeling  good, 
share.  When  you  are  feeling  bad,  withdraw.  Keep  this  up  for  six  months  and  go  on  noting 
what  is  happening.  Within  six  months  you  will  become  very  very  aware. 

Don't  be  worried  about  the  other  thing  —  that  you  become  interested  in  other  men.  That  is 
natural;  that  is  simply  natural.  If  he  becomes  interested  in  other  women,  don't  feel  hurt. 
That  too  is  natural.  In  fact  lovers  who  love  each  other  deeply  don't  become  disinterested 
in  other  human  beings.  For  the  first  time  they  become  really  interested,  but  in  spite  of 
their  interest  they  would  like  to  share  with  each  other  only.  That's  a  different  thing. 

[Osho  said  that  if  your  lover  is  attracted  to  another  woman,  it  is  because  he  sees  you 
reflected  in  her.  There  is  nothing  wrong  in  feeling  attraction  for  others.  If  love  is  there,  it 
is  good.] 


Humanity  has  been  taught  very  wrong  things.  They  have  been  taught  that  if  you  love  a 
woman,  then  you  cannot  be  attracted  to  any  other  woman.  If  you  are  attracted  to  another 
woman,  your  love  is  false;  you  are  betraying.  This  is  foolish.  This  creates  g  ult, 
unnecessary  guilt.  It  creates  jealousy  and  a  thousand  and  one  sorts  of  conflicts  and 
naggings.  The  whole  beauty  of  love  is  lost.  It  becomes  almost  hell-fire.  It  becomes  dirty 
and  ugly. 

So  if  you  are  feeling  loving  towards  him,  work  it  out;  don't  be  in  a  hurry.  Love  likes  time 
to  grow.  And  on  his  side  there  are  no  problems.  It  is  very  difficult  to  find  a  man  who  has 
no  problems  on  his  side.  So  half  the  problems  are  solved. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  When  I  write  for  myself  I  have  no  difficulty,  but  as  soon  as  I  write  to 
someone,  I  start  trembling.] 

It  is  simple  then.  You  have  no  problem  in  the  body;  the  problem  is  just  in  the  mind.  The 
problem  arises  when  you  become  self-conscious.  When  you  are  writing  to  yourself,  there 
is  no  question  of  being  self-conscious.  When  you  are  writing  to  somebody  else,  you 
become  conscious  about  what  to  write,  what  not  to  write,  whether  this  will  be  good  or 
not;  whether  you  will  be  impressing  the  other  in  the  right  way  or  not.  Then  you  become 
puzzled  and  you  become  too  self-conscious,  and  that  creates  the  trouble. 

[Osho  recounted  the  story  of  the  centipede  who,  with  his  hundred  legs,  impressed  a 
passing  hare,  who  asked  him  how  he  could  possibly  cope  with  so  many  legs,  trying  to 
work  out  which  should  come  first,  etc.  The  centipede,  who  had  never  given  it  any  thought 
before,  began  to  study  the  way  he  walked,  but  found  the  whole  process  so  confusing  that 
he  fell  down,  unable  to  walk  a  step!] 

Self-consciousness  creates  many  problems.  So  do  one  thing  now  —  just  a  small  exercise 
before  you  write.  For  five  minutes  sit  silently  and  feel  that  everybody  is  you,  the  whole 
existence  is  one;  the  other  is  not  the  other.  You  are  the  other,  the  other  is  in  you.  Don't 
feel  as  if  you  are  an  island;  become  part  of  the  continent. 

Address  the  letter  to  'Myself  —  in  the  form  of  such  and  such',  and  then  write.  For  five 
minutes  simply  meditate  on  your  being  one  with  the  whole.  There  is  no  one  else,  so  there 
is  no  question  of  being  self-conscious.  All  letters  are  written  to  oneself. 

[Osho  said  that  as  soon  as  one  felt  self-conscious,  one  began  to  feel  awkward,  ill  at  ease, 
y  someone  is  watching  you  painting,  you  start  to  lose  the  feeling  of  unity  with  your  work. 
Osho  recounted  Winston  Churchill's  reply  as  to  how  he  managed  to  speak  so  eloquently 
in  front  of  audiences.  He  said  he  simply  told  himself  that  he  was  addressing  an  audience 
of  donkeys,  idiots,  and  then  was  able  to  proceed  quite  smoothly. 

Another  famous  public  speaker,  Mark  Twain,  was  asked  by  his  wife  how  his  lecture  had 
gone.  He  asked  if  she  was  referring  to  the  one  he  had  prepared,  the  one  he  gave,  or  the 
one  he  wanted  to  deliver. 

Osho  said  Churchill's  was  the  western  way;  his  method,  the  eastern....  ] 


Do  the  eastern  way  —  all  are  one.  And  there  is  no  need  to  count  the  legs  —  they  are 
functioning  well.  Everything  is  going  so  well  spontaneously.  The  moment  you  start 
thinking  about  it,  things  go  wrong.  You  are  too  much  of  a  thinker,  that's  all! 

Just  write  a  letter  tonight,  and  don't  even  read  it  twice.  You  can  write  a  good  letter  to  me. 
Try  it.  At  least  I  will  not  judge  you.  Whatsoever  you  write  will  be  good.  I  approve  a 
priori! 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I'm  so  confused.  You  say  sometimes  to  think  of  the  whole  and  being 
one  —  and  it  helps  sometimes.  But  sometimes  when  I  feel  angry  then  I  can't  see  that. 
When  I'm  blocked  I  just  don't  feel  like  that,  and  I  don't  know  whether  I'm  deceiving 
myself  or...  j 

I  understand.  No,  you  are  not  deceiving  yourself.  Only  when  one  is  blocked, when  one  is 
angry  or  sad  or  depressed  and  energy  is  not  flowing  is  it  very  difficult  to  conceive  that 
there  is  only  one.  When  you  are  flowing,  happy,  silent,  in  a  certain  celebrating  mood,  it 
comes  easily.  You  can  feel  that  you  and  the  whole  existence  are  one.  Both  are  true,  but  in 
angry,  depressed  moments,  sad  moments,  you  will  start  being  suspicious  about  whether 
those  moments  when  you  were  thinking  everything  is  one,  were  illusory,  because  now 
they  are  lost. 

They  were  real.  They  are  now  lost;  that  too  is  real.  Both  are  realities  —  two  different 
planes  of  reality.  There  is  no  need  to  be  confused  about  them.  So  when  you  are  feeling 
angry,  don't  try  that,  because  that  is  not  the  right  moment.  It  is  as  if  one  is  sowing  seeds 
on  a  rock.  When  nothing  comes  you  will  wonder  whether  these  are  real  seeds  or  just 
stones  because  nothing  is  coming  up  Seeds  need  the  right  soil. 

So  when  you  are  happy,  the  Vedanta  is  true.  It  is  applicable  only  to  happy  minds.  God 
exists  only  for  happy  minds.  You  can  conceive  of  what  I  am  saying  only  in  a  happy  mood 
because  in  that  mood  you  have  wings  and  you  will  fly  into  the  sky.  Then  the  sky  is  true. 
But  when  your  wings  are  cut  and  you  have  fallen  on  the  ground,  it  is  almost  impossible  to 
fly.  Even  to  move  is  difficult,  even  to  crawl  is  difficult.  What  to  think  about  the  sky? 
What  about  those  wings?  That  all  looks  unreal. 

And  in  this  moment  it  is  unreal.  Not  that  it  was  unreal.  So  don't  try.  In  these  moments, 
something  else  has  to  be  done.  When  you  are  feeling  angry,  when  you  are  feeling  sad, 
then  to  try  this  feeling  of  cosmic  unity  is  absurd.  It  is  as  if  somebody  is  paralysed  and  he 
wants  to  swim  or  run,  or  to  take  part  in  a  race.  These  are  paralysed  moments. 

[Osho  said  that  in  such  moments  one  should  be  alone  in  one's  room  with  a  pillow  and 
release  the  anger  and  negative  feelings  onto  the  pillow  until  the  energy  is  flowing  once 
again.  He  said  we  expect  that  we  should  be  happy  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  for  us  right 
now  that  is  not  possible....  1 

Even  if  in  twenty-four  hours  there  is  a  single  moment  where  you  can  feel  the  truth  that 
everything  is  one,  enough;  that  will  do.  By  and  by  these  moments  will  grow. 

There  are  millions  of  people  who  cannot  imagine  for  a  single  moment  that  only  one 
exists.  Think  of  those.  They  think  God  is  dead.  They  think  prayer  is  nonsense.  They  think 
meditation  is  stupid.  They  call  it  navel-gazing,  they  call  it  lotus-eating.  They  call  all  these 


things  names.  For  them  it's  okay,  because  they  don't  have  the  wings,  so  what  to  say  to 
them?  They  don't  know  anything  of  the  sky. 

So  I  don't  see  the  problem.  You  are  creating  the  problem  by  trying  to  fly  in  wrong 
moments.  These  are  right  moments  to  take  off.  All  moments  are  not  right  to  take  off. 
When  the  sky  is  clear  and  you  are  in  a  happy  mood,  a  radiant  mood,  when  you  are  feeling 
weightless  and  gravitation  doesn't  matter  —  in  those  moments,  pray,  in  those  moments 
think  of  God.  In  those  moments  think  of  me,  and  you  will  be  immediately  related  to  me. 
Your  hand  will  be  in  my  hand. 

[The  sannyasin  then  said  that  she  and  her  husband  did  not  always  move  together,  and  said 
that  she  sometimes  felt  hurt  because  he  said  she  did  not  love  him.  This  made  her  try  to 
prove  her  love,  which  meant  she  found  herself  doing  things  she  didn't  want  to.  Still,  she 
felt  it  necessary  if  she  were  to  prove  her  love.] 

No,  there  is  no  need  to  do  that.  Love  is  such  an  impossible  thing  that  nobody  believes  in 
it  anyway.  It  is  very  easy  to  believe  that  somebody  does  not  love  you.  It  is  very  difficult 
to  believe  that  somebody  loves  you,  because  love  is  not  of  this  world;  that  is  the  trouble. 
Love  is  immaterial. 

It  is  very  difficult  to  believe  that  somebody  loves  you.  You  can  only  believe  that  you  love 
somebody  because  that  you  know  from  the  inside.  But  how  to  trust  that  the  other  loves 
you?  It  remains  always  a  vague  thing.  And  when  somebody  feels  suspicious,  doubtful, 
not  certain  whether  you  love  him  or  not,  you  try  to  prove  that  you  do,  but  your  every 
effort  is  suicidal.  The  more  you  try  to  prove  it,  the  more  suspicious  the  other  will  become, 
because  if  you  really  love,  why  are  you  trying  to  prove  it? 

[Osho  said  that  she  should  stop  trying  to  prove  her  love;  just  to  love  was  enough.  If  her 
husband  did  not  believe  her,  that  was  his  problem,  but  as  he  grew  in  love,  he  would  come 
to  feel  her  love.  Trying  to  prove  oneself  could  bring  more  complications.] 

So  drop  the  effort  of  proving.  Many  people  do  it.  They  go  out  of  the  way  to  prove  it. 
Husbands  do  it.  They  will  bring  ice-cream  and  flowers.  In  fact  if  the  husband  brings 
flowers,  brings  ice-cream  and  sweets  and  this  and  that  -  a  new  sari  for  you  —  you  feel 
suspicious.  He  must  have  done  something,  otherwise  why?  He  must  have  done  something 
against  you.  He  must  have  looked  at  another  woman,  or  he  must  have  laughed  and  talked 
with  some  other  woman  and  is  feeling  guilty,  otherwise  why  these  things? 

And  that  too  has  a  point.  Husbands  only  bring  ice-creams  when  they  feel  guilty, 
otherwise  who  bothers?  I'm  not  saying  stop  loving  him;  I'm  not  saying  stop  doing  things 
for  him.  You  love  him,  so  continue  to  do  things  for  him  —  but  not  to  prove  anything...  just 
out  of  your  love. 

And  there  is  no  need  to  move  with  him  for  twenty-four  hours.  Lovers  should  never  be 
together  for  twenty-four  hours,  otherwise  they  destroy  the  whole  beauty  of  it.  They 
become  heavy  on  each  other.  It  is  good  to  have  every  day  a  few  hours  divorce  and  a  few 
minutes  honeymoon.  Good. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #10 


Chapter  title:  None 

30  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608305 
ShortTitle:  PASSIO10 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[A  sannyasin  had  said  at  his  last  darshan  (see  Dance  Your  Way  to  God,  August  16th, 
1976)  that  he  was  too  much  of  an  egoist,  so  Osho  had  told  him  to  give  his  ego  full  play 
for  one  week  —  to  set  himself  up  as  a  guru  and  adopt  some  followers  etc. 

Tonight,  the  sannyasin  reported  back  :  I  enjoyed  it,  but  I  also  felt  guilty.  All  that  you  say 
is  against  the  ego.  If  someone  says  something  against  my  ego,  I  take  it  that  he's  saying  it 
to  me.  I  didn't  see  it  as  being  towards  something  separate  from  me,  but  you  said  to  see  it 
as  a  separate  thing.] 

I  am  against  the  ego  —  and  the  thing  that  I  told  you  to  do  is  the  best  way  to  get  rid  of  the 
ego,  so  there  is  no  contradiction.  If  you  really  want  to  drop  the  ego,  first  be  a  perfect 
egoist.  Just  as  ripe  fruit  fan  on  their  own  accord,  a  ripe  ego  falls  on  its  own  accord.  An 
unripe  ego  cannot  fall;  it  clings.  So  if  you  try  to  be  humble,  if  you  make  efforts  against 
the  ego,  it  will  remain  unripe,  immature.  It  will  cling  to  you  and  it  will  poison  your  being. 
So  the  best  way  to  get  rid  of  it  from  your  system  is  to  first  be  with  it.  Go  the  whole  way 
with  it.  Be  a  really  perfect  egoist.  Enjoy  its  pleasure  and  pain;  they  are  both  there.  There 
is  pleasure  —  otherwise  why  should  people  be  egoists?  There  is  a  certain  gratification. 

You  feel  at  the  top  of  the  world.  But  again  and  again  you  also  feel  hurt  because  nobody  is 
there  to  support  your  ego.  They  are  supporting  their  own.  Why  should  they  bother  about 
you? 

So  when  they  see  that  here  comes  an  egoist,  they  start  destroying  your  ego,  because  that 
is  the  only  way  that  they  can  support  their  own.  So  it  is  a  continuous  competition  between 
the  egos.  They  have  to  keep  their  flag  high.  Just  to  keep  their  flag  high,  they  force  your 
flag  low;  they  have  to  put  you  down.  Then  it  hurts.  The  ego  gives  pleasure  —  that's  why 
so  many  people,  almost  all  people,  are  egoists.  And  it  hurts  —  that's  why  every  egoist 
thinks,  in  some  moments  of  contemplation,  about  how  to  get  rid  of  it.  These  things  both 
go  on  in  the  mind  because  it  is  a  very  ambiguous  thing. 

It  is  pleasant...  it  is  painful.  It  gives  you  glimpses  of  both  heaven  and  hell  —  and  to  get  rid 
of  it,  you  have  to  pass  through  both.  You  have  to  see  its  pleasures  and  you  have  to  see  its 
pain.  Then  by  and  by  you  will  become  capable  of  seeing  that  it  is  the  same  thing  giving 
you  pleasure,  and  the  same  thing  giving  you  pain.  Your  ego  means  hurting  others'  egos.  It 
is  that  that  is  giving  you  pleasure.  But  the  same  is  being  done  to  you  by  others,  because 
their  ego  means  hurting  you.  Then  one  becomes  aware  of  the  whole  game.  With  that  very 
awareness,  one  starts  laughing  at  the  whole  ridiculousness  of  it. 

Then  one  does  not  become  egoless,  one  does  not  become  humble.  One  simply  drops  the 
ego.  One  is  simply  aware  —  neither  egoistic  nor  egoless.  One  is  out  of  the  game;  one  is  no 
more  part  of  that  trip.  The  humble  person  is  also  on  the  same  trip.  He  is  trying  to  be  the 
most  humble  man  in  the  world.  Now  the  trip  is  the  same.  If  you  tell  a  humble  person  that 
you  have  come  across  a  person  who  is  more  humble  than  him,  he  will  immediately  feel 


hurt.  He  cannot  believe  that  anyone  can  be  more  humble  than  he.  Impossible!  He  is  the 
last.  But  in  saying  that  he  is  the  last,  he  is  putting  himself  first.  The  ego  is  very  tricky. 
Even  in  being  last  you  can  become  competitive. 

In  India  we  have  many  stories  about  the  city  Lucknow.  It  is  one  of  the  most  cultured 
cities  of  the  world;  in  fact  cultured  too  much.  People  are  so  polite,  so  nice,  that  the  whole 
thing  is  sickening.  So  this  is  part  of  Lucknow's  etiquette  —  that  if  two  persons  are  entering 
a  room,  for  half  an  hour  they  will  just  say  'You  first',  and  the  other  will  say  'No,  you  first'. 
Even  on  a  railway  station,  waiting  to  enter  the  train,  you  will  see  people  saying  to  each 
other  'You  first.  How  can  I  be  first?  I  am  just  nobody'. 

It  is  said  that  once  a  woman  was  pregnant  with  twins.  They  were  never  born  —  'You  first'! 
The  woman  died.  They  were  so  polite  and  such  nice  guys!  So  even  the  last  person  can  be 
on  an  ego  trip. 

So  I  tell  you  to  be  fully  egoistic;  deliberately  be  egoistic.  Enjoy  both  the  pleasure  and  the 
pain.  That  will  give  you  a  ripeness.  That  will  give  you  the  experience  of  what  the  ego 
really  is.  Through  that  very  experience  one  day  it  will  suddenly  explode.  Then  you  will 
not  try  to  be  a  humble  person;  you  will  simply  be  humble.  You  will  not  even  be  aware 
that  you  are  humble.  Then  humility  is  true.  When  the  person  is  not  even  aware  that  he  is 
humble...  and  a  humble  person  is  not  aware  that  he  is  humble,  because  only  an  egoistic 
person  can  be  aware  that  he  is  humble. 

Because  of  the  ego,  a  true  life  cannot  function,  cannot  reveal  its  mysteries  to  you.  The 
ego  goes  on  covering  your  eyes.  But  you  are  too  young.  That's  why  I  say  just  play  the 
game  first.  For  ten  months  play  the  game  and  suffer  —  and  don't  feel  guilty.  Even  if  you 
feel  guilty,  do  it.  That  is  your  meditation.  One  day  you  will  become  aware.  You  are  very 
sensitive;  you  can  become  aware. 

[Members  of  the  Tao  group  were  present  tonight.  One  group  member  sat  with  eyes  closed 
in  front  of  Osho  and  then  slowly  fell  back  with  arms  raised.] 

Open  your  eyes  and  look  at  me!  Good!  [a  chuckle]  Very  good.  Your  energy  is  flowing 
really  well  —  as  it  should  flow.  Just  go  with  it. 

This  is  what  the  Chinese  call  the  energy  of  chi.  Once  it  starts  working,  you  are  in  a  very 
deep  harmony  with  the  existence.  Just  go  with  it,  whatsoever  happens  even  if  sometimes 
you  feel  strange,  weird.  Our  whole  pattern  of  life  is  to  fight,  and  this  is  relaxing  all  fight. 
In  the  West  only  Pythagoras  had  an  insight  about  this  energy,  nobody  else.  He  called  it  a 
really  beautiful  name;  he  called  it  'harmonium'.  It  is  a  harmony...  a  harmony  with 
existence.  Everything  is  already  going  on  its  way;  we  are  just  to  go  with  it.  The  river  is 
flowing  —  we  have  just  to  relax  and  stop  fighting. 

There  are  only  two  ways  of  being;  one  is  competition  and  another  is  cooperation.  The 
West  knows  only  competition.  It  has  forgotten  the  style  of  cooperation.  Now  you  can 
learn  the  style  of  cooperation.  The  energy  is  available.  Just  cooperate  with  it.  Wherever  it 
leads  go  with  it.  It  will  lead  you  to  new  spaces  —  far  out  spaces.  Just  surrender.  It  will 
suck  you  to  the  deepest  core  of  your  being.  Don't  be  afraid.  And  each  day,  the  more  you 
go  with  it,  the  more  and  more  harmony  will  be  felt  in  your  being.  Soon  you  will  start 
hearing  the  celestial  music  which  comes  automatically  when  one  falls  in  harmony. 


[A  group  member  says:  Right  now  I  feel  sad. 


So  you  started  feeling  sad  just  now?  Just  close  your  eyes  and  raise  both  your  hands 
towards  me,  and  if  something  happens  in  the  energy,  allow  it...  as  if  your  energy  is 
meeting  my  energy  and  I  am  surrounding  you,  as  if  I  am  just  a  whirlpool  and  you  are 
being  carried  with  me. 

...  You  are  holding  —  that  may  be  the  whole  problem.  You  don't  trust  life.  Somewhere 
deep  down  there  is  a  mistrust  of  life,  as  if  if  you  don't  control,  things  will  go  wrong  and 
that  if  you  remain  in  control  only  then  things  can  go  right,  that  you  have  to  always 
deliberately  manage  things.  Maybe  your  childhood  conditioning  has  helped  in  that  way. 
That  has  done  much  damage,  because  when  a  person  starts  managing  everything,  his  life 
is  lived  at  the  minimum. 

Life  is  such  a  vast  phenomenon;  it  is  impossible  to  manage  it.  And  if  you  really  want  to 
manage  it,  you  have  to  cut  it  to  the  minimum;  then  you  can  manage.  Otherwise  life  is 
wild.  It  is  as  wild  as  these  clouds,  and  this  rain  and  this  breeze  and  these  trees  and  the 
sky.  It  is  wild  —  and  you  have  cut  your  wild  part  completely.  You  are  afraid  of  it  —  that's 
why  you  don't  open  as  much  as  you  can,  and  that  is  creating  your  sadness  also. 

Sadness  is  nothing  but  the  same  energy  that  could  have  been  happiness.  When  you  don't 
see  that  your  happiness  is  flowering,  you  become  sad.  Whenever  you  see  somebody 
happy,  you  become  sad;  why  is  it  not  happening  to  you?  It  can  happen  to  you!  There  is 
no  problem  in  it.  You  just  have  to  uncondition  your  past.  You  will  have  to  go  a  little  out 
of  the  way  for  it  to  happen,  so  just  make  a  few  efforts  to  open  yourself.  Even  if  it  feels  a 
little  painful  in  the  beginning....  In  the  beginning  it  will  feel  painful. 

Start  one  meditation  in  the  night,  from  tonight.  Just  feel  as  if  you  are  not  a  human  being 
at  all.  You  can  choose  any  animal  that  you  like.  If  you  like  a  cat,  good.  If  you  like  a  dog, 
good...  or  a  tiger;  male,  female,  anything  you  like.  Just  choose,  but  then  stick  to  it. 
Become  that  animal.  Move  on  all  fours  in  the  room  and  become  that  animal. 

For  fifteen  minutes  enjoy  the  fantasy  as  much  as  you  can.  Bark  if  you  are  a  dog  and  do 
things  a  dog  is  expected  to  do  —  and  really  do!  Enjoy  it.  And  don't  control,  because  a  dog 
cannot  control.  A  dog  means  absolute  freedom,  so  whatsoever  happens  in  that  moment, 
do.  In  that  moment  don't  bring  in  the  human  element  of  control.  Be  really  doggedly  a 
dog.  For  fifteen  minutes  roam  around  the  room...  bark,  jump.  Continue  this  for  seven 
days  and  then  tell  me. 

It  will  help.  You  need  a  little  more  animal  energy.  You  are  too  sophisticated,  too 
civilised,  and  that  is  crippling  you.  Too  much  civilisation  is  a  paralysing  thing.  It  is  good 
in  a  small  dose  but  too  much  of  it  is  very  dangerous.  One  should  always  remain  capable 
of  being  an  animal.  Your  animal  has  to  be  freed;  that  is  the  problem  as  I  see  it.  If  you  can 
learn  to  be  a  little  wild,  all  your  problems  will  disappear.  So  start  from  tonight  —  and 
enjoy  it! 

[A  group  member  said  that  he  seemed  stuck  in  his  throat,  as  if  he  wanted  to  vomit.  Osho 
checks  his  energy  and  suggested  that  for  three  mornings  in  a  row,  he  drink  as  much  of  a 
bucket  of  warm  salted  water  as  he  could,  until  he  was  on  the  point  of  vomiting, 
whereupon  he  should  induce  a  retching  action  so  that  all  the  water  would  be  as  if 
siphoned  out  again. ] 


It  is  something  to  do  with  the  throat  centre.  It  happens  to  people  who  are  not  very 
extrovert. 

[The  group  member  replies:  I  am  an  extrovert.] 

You  have  remained  alone.  An  extrovert  is  one  wo  extroverts.  You  may  think  you  are  — 
you  are  not. 

As  far  as  your  deepest  emotions  are  concerned,  you  have  never  been  able  to  express 
them.  Deep  down  you  have  remained  alone.  You  have  never  been  in  any  relationship  in 
which  you  were  totally  lost.  You  have  never  been  in  any  occupation  in  which  you  were 
totally  lost.  You  have  remained  separate.  Deep  down  somewhere  you  have  remained 
alone. 

An  extrovert  is  one  who  is  very  easily  lost  in  anything.  An  introvert  is  one  who, 
whatsoever  he  does,  remains  alone.  Somewhere  he  is  separate,  aloof,  distant.  He  tries 
You  may  have  been  trying.  And  if  you  try,  you  can  become  a  good  citizen,  a  good 
husband,  a  good  lover,  a  good  friend,  but  that  is  effort.  If  you  relax,  that  will  disappear. 
By  effort  you  have  become  an  extrovert,  but  by  your  intrinsic  nature  you  are  not. 

This  centre  —  the  throat  centre  —  is  the  centre  of  expression,  so  whenever  something 
starts  arising  in  you  and  comes  to  the  throat,  you  will  always  feel  this  difficulty,  because 
you  will  not  be  able  to  find  ways  and  means  of  expressing  it.  That's  what  is  choking  you. 
Something  really  beautiful  has  happened  and  the  energy  is  moving,  but  it  cannot  pass 
through  the  throat  centre.  So  the  throat  centre  needs  a  cleansing. 

This  hot  water  will  clean  the  throat  centre.  The  very  process  of  vomiting  is  helpful.  If  it  is 
not  working,  then  on  the  third  day,  write  a  letter  [to  Osho].  Otherwise  it  will  be  gone. 
Don't  be  worried. 

[Osho  gives  another  sannyasin  an  'energy  darshan'] 

Good...  come  back.  You  have  started  the  whole  thing  beautifully.  Now  if  you  would  like 
to  say  something,  you  can. 

...  Your  energy  is  flowing  very  well.  Just  do  one  thing  before  you  go  to  sleep  at  night.  Sit 
in  your  room  and  keep  this  box  in  your  left  hand.  Whatsoever  happens,  don't  leave  the 
box.  You  can  tie  it  to  your  hand  with  a  handkerchief  because  sometimes  you  may  be  in 
such  an  energy  flow  that  it  may  be  thrown.  For  fifteen  minutes,  whatsoever  happens,  go 
with  it.  Go  very  gracefully,  smoothly...  as  if  you  are  being  taken  into  a  different  world. 
And  I  will  be  holding  your  hand,  so  don't  be  worried. 

Something  very  significant  is  close  by.  If  your  energy  starts  moving  in  the  right  rhythm.... 
It  is  only  a  question  of  rhythm.  If  you  can  vibrate  in  the  right  rhythm,  you  will  be  able  to 
touch  it.  It  is  always  a  question  of  vibrancy. 

Existence  is  vibrating  in  a  certain  rhythm.  If  we  can  also  vibrate  in  the  same  rhythm, 
there  is  a  meeting  immediately,  a  fusion,  melting.  We  go  on  missing  because  we  don't 
know  what  rhythm  is  and  how  to  vibrate  in  the  same  rhythm.  So  close  your  eyes  and  start 
vibrating.  You  need  not  worry  about  what  to  do.  Simply  let  go.  By  and  by  you  will  see  a 
certain  pattern,  a  certain  field  of  energy  arising  around  you.  Do  it  for  ten  days  every  night 
and  every  day  it  will  become  more  and  more  clear.  And  some  day,  something  will 
happen.... 


[Another  group  member  had  a  problem  in  the  group  where  he  felt  angry  but  was  unable 
to  express  it.] 


Nothing  to  be  disturbed  about.  You  have  learned  a  mechanism,  and  that  mechanism  has 
become  very  ingrained.  The  mechanism  is  that  you  go  only  so  far  and  then  you  simply 
withdraw.  You  become  angry  only  so  far  and  then  you  withdraw  because  you  are  afraid 
that  if  you  go  beyond  that,  you  may  not  be  able  to  withdraw.  You  may  go  mad  or  you 
may  do  something  which  should  not  be  done, 

So  that  fear  has  become  ingrained,  and  that  functions  like  an  automatic  thing.  It  is  not 
you.  You  try;  you  do  whatsoever  you  can.  If  they  say,  'Be  angry’,  you  try,  but  by  the 
moment  the  anger  comes  to  the  point  where  the  mechanism  exists,  immediately 
something  goes  flop  and  you  withdraw. 

[Osho  said  that  Rolfing  would  be  helpful,  because  the  mechanism  had  gone  into  the  body, 
so  groups  alone  could  not  help...  ] 

...  because  the  group  works  only  with  the  mind  energy.  You  must  have  learned  it  your 
whole  life.  It  has  really  gone  into  the  body  structure.  Even  your  musculature  has  become 
repressive.  It  is  not  streaming.  It  is  not  vibrating.  It  has  become  a  little  stoney. 

You  have  controlled  too  much.  But  that  happens  to  many  people  because  all  the  cultures, 
societies,  religions  —  they  all  teach  you  to  be  dead.  You  have  been  trying  to  be  a  very 
very  good  man,  a  gentleman.  You  have  succeeded  in  that  —  that's  your  trouble.  You  have 
succeeded  in  your  effort  and  the  thing  has  gone  into  the  body  armour.  So  it  has  to  be 
broken  there,  in  the  musculature. 

[Osho  said  that  apart  from  Rolfing  (which  is  available  here  in  the  ashram),  he  should 
begin  some  kind  of  physical  exercise  —  like  going  for  a  long  walk,  but  briskly,  almost 
running.  He  said  the  emphasis  should  be  on  exhalation  rather  than  inhalation,  which  the 
body  would  do  automatically  . 

Secondly,  he  should  make  a  habit  of  doing  something  absurd  whenever  he  was  alone  in 
the  bathroom  —  pulling  a  face,  making  a  nonsensical  sound....  ] 

That  will  relax  many  things  in  you.  You  have  managed  too  well,  so  some  spaces  are 
needed  to  create  some  holes  in  your  personality.  You  have  a  well-guarded  personality, 
well  polished.  So  this  is  my  way  of  sabotaging  it.  Do  these  three  things  and  after  ten  days, 
tell  me.  It  will  go.  There  is  nothing  to  be  worried  about....  And  continue  meditating. 

[A  group  member  said:  This  group  was  really  the  most  incredible  experience  I  ever  had... 
energy  just  flowing  over...  ] 

Mm,  you  are  still  vibrating  with  the  energy.  Very  good. 

People  don't  know  how  to  live  with  vibrating  energy,  otherwise  the  whole  world  would 
be  fun  of  love.  People  have  so  much  to  give,  and  it  is  rotting  inside  them.  They  have  so 
much  music  and  it  is  just  lying  there.  And  death  will  take  everything  away.  People  are 
misers.  They  have  completely  forgotten  their  treasures  of  energies.  So  remember  it. 


People  are  unnecessarily  living  in  poverty.  They  can  live  like  emperors  because  that 
much  energy  is  already  there.  It  just  needs  a  little  stirring,  a  little  challenge,  a  provocation 
and  a  little  courage. 

You  can  stir  so  much  energy  around  you  that  you  can  create  a  whirlwind  of  love,  and 
wherever  you  go,  people  will  suddenly  feel  that  a  new  breeze  has  passed.  Everybody  can 
do  that;  everybody  has  the  potential.  But  people  live  at  the  minimum;  they  live  poor  — 
they  have  decided  to  live  that  way. 

A  religious  person  is  one  who  is  trying  to  live  at  the  optimum.  Why  live  at  the  minimum 
when  one  can  live  at  the  optimum?  Why  live  in  the  dark  valley  when  you  can  live  on  the 
Himalayan  peak? 

So  learn  that.  And  always  remember  to  vibrate.  If  one  vibrates,  the  others  start 
responding.  It  is  a  chain.  That's  how  it  happens  sometimes  in  groups.  If  one  person  is 
really  vibrating,  he  will  start  a  chain.  Then  another  starts  vibrating,  then  the  third;  then 
everybody  is  overflooded.  Then  people  who  are  very  very  dull  and  dead,  even  they  start 
feeling  that  something  is  stirring  them. 

That  is  the  beauty  of  a  group  experience.  Alone  it  may  be  difficult  for  you.  In  a  group  it 
becomes  very  easy.  Even  one  alive  person  can  make  the  whole  group  alive.  And  once 
you  know  it  is  there,  you  can  create  your  own. 

Just  try  it.  Sitting  in  your  bed  in  the  night,  just  fill  the  whole  room  with  your  energy  and 
you  will  feel  a  throbbing,  a  beating.  You  can  almost  feel  it  filling  the  whole  room,  and  the 
whole  room  will  feel  it.  It  will  have  a  different  quality  of  radiance.  You  can  sit  in  a  dark 
room  and  create  it  and  soon  you  will  see  a  bluish  glow  surrounding  you  in  the  darkness.lt 
is  exactly  like  electricity. 

Try.  It  has  been  a  beautiful  experience. 

[A  group  member  said:  I  couldn't  become  angry,  but  I  got  in  touch  with  some  very  soft 
things,  and  I  feel  very  happy  about  that.j 

Good,  very  good.  You  did  well. 

For  you,  one  thing  has  to  be  remembered.  This  soft  space  can  become  a  permanent  thing 
with  you,  but  you  have  to  learn  one  small  thing  to  make  it  permanent  —  and  that  is  to 
develop  a  soft  eye. 

We  can  look  at  things  in  two  ways  —  hard  and  soft.  When  you  look  at  something  with  a 
hard  eye,  you  look  at  it  directly;  you  focus  on  it.  Then  every  line  is  clear  and  you  see  it  as 
separate  from  other  things.  For  example,  if  you  focus  on  one  tree,  then  it  is  separate  from 
other  trees,  separate  from  the  house,  separate  from  the  people  passing  by,  separate  from 
the  clouds  roaming  around.  You  focus  on  it  and  all  its  separateness,  its  indifference,  its 
individuality. 

When  you  look  at  a  thing  in  a  soft  way,  with  a  soft  eye,  you  look  unfocused,  not  at  it 
exactly  but  through  it.  Then  you  don't  pay  much  attention  to  its  distinctiveness.  On  the 
contrary,  you  see  the  tree  as  part  of  the  whole  scene  —  many  trees,  the  clouds,  the  sun,  the 
birds,  the  people  passing  —  and  you  also  included.  Then  the  tree  is  not  focused  and  taken 
apart  from  the  whole  gestalt.  It  is  just  part  of  it. 

So  try  to  develop  a  soft  eye.  Look,  but  in  a  soft  way.  It  will  be  a  little  vague,  dim,  not  so 
clear-cut...  as  if  you  have  taken  a  photograph  from  the  camera  and  it  was  not  rightly 
focused.  It  will  be  unfocused,  but  it  will  help  your  soft  space.  People  who  look  with  a 


hard  eye  become  hard.  People  who  look  with  a  soft  eye  become  soft.  Poets  look  with  soft 
eyes,  mathematicians  with  hard  eyes.  Painters  look  with  soft  eyes,  scientists  with  hard 
eyes.  If  you  look  with  a  hard  eye,  life  is  like  prose.  If  you  look  with  a  soft  eye,  life  is 
more  like  poetry  —  everything  meeting  and  merging  into  each  other. 

So  just  try  to  be  soft.  Move  softly,  look  softly,  talk  softly.  Just  try  to  grow  softness  all 
around  you.  That  will  become  a  support  for  the  inner  space  that  you  have  just  glimpsed, 
and  that  soft  space  will  become  more  and  more  available  to  you.  By  and  by  it  will 
become  your  abode.  It  has  been  really  good.... 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #11 
Chapter  title:  None 

31  August  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7608315 
ShortTitle:  PASSIOll 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

The  first  thing  is  to  fall  in  line  with  me.  Just  dose  your  eyes  and  feel  yourself  surrounded 
by  me  —  as  if  you  have  entered  me,  as  if  I  am  only  a  door.  Relax,  and  if  something  starts 
happening  in  your  body  energy,  allow  it.  Just  go  with  it .... 

Geet  means  song  and  Govind  means  God  —  God's  song.  It  is  also  the  name  of  a  very  great 
poem  —  Geet  Govind.  It  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  devotional  books. 

So  now  forget  the  old  completely  and  start  anew.  It  helps  tremendously.  Once  you  can 
get  the  idea  that  you  are  reborn,  then  you  are  really  reborn.  It  is  just  a  question  of  getting 
the  idea.  Whatsoever  we  are  is  nothing  but  our  idea  about  ourselves.  If  we  get  into  the 
idea  of  being  miserable,  we  are  miserable.  If  we  get  into  the  idea  of  being  blessed, 
blissful,  we  are  blissful. 

This  is  the  only  thing  worth  understanding  —  that  we  live  out  of  our  ideas,  that  we  create 
our  world  around  us;  that  the  world  is  not  there  really,  the  world  is  not  given  —  it  is 
projected.  It  is  we  who  create  it,  and  hence  we  don't  live  in  the  same  world;  we  cannot. 
There  are  as  many  worlds  as  there  are  people.  We  only  appear  to  be  together.  We  cannot 
be  because  we  live  poles  apart.  Everybody  creates  around  himself  his  own  projection 
which  follows  him  like  a  shadow  and  goes  on  creating  things  for  him.  So  just  the  very 
idea  that  the  old  is  dropped  from  this  moment  and  hence  forward  you  will  be  a  new 
person  .... 

In  all  religions  some  sort  of  ritual  exists  to  give  you  the  idea.  That  is  just  a  suggestion.  In 
Christianity,  baptism  exists.  That's  nothing  but  something  to  just  give  you  an  idea  that 
you  are  no  more  in  continuity  with  your  past.  A  discontinuity  has  happened,  a  gap  has 
arisen.  That  very  understanding  helps  tremendously,  because  old  problems  now  look 
ridiculous  because  they  don't  belong  to  you. 

Just  watch  it:  sometimes  if  you  think  a  problem  belongs  to  you  —  even  if  it  doesn't  —  you 
start  getting  anxious  about  it.  Just  sit  silently  and  think  that  someone  is  insulting  you. 
What  to  do  now?  You  start  feeling  anger  arising  in  you.  Nobody  has  insulted  you!  Or 


when  somebody  has  insulted  you,  just  relax  and  think  that  he  has  insulted  somebody  else. 
How  can  he  insult  you?  You  don't  even  know  yourself  —  how  can  he  know  you?  Maybe 
he  has  insulted  your  name,  your  form,  but  that  is  not  you.  Suddenly  you  see  that 
something  subsides.  The  very  idea  becomes  our  identity. 

So  from  this  moment,  feel  completely  discontinuous  with  your  past.  And  start  anew,  with 
a  new  nucleus,  so  new  integration  can  arise.  It  is  always  easier  to  demolish  the  old 
structure  and  make  a  new  start  than  to  renovate  the  old.  Howsoever  you  renovate, 
somehow  it  remains  old.  Modified,  changed  a  little  here  and  there,  plastered  again, 
decorated  a  little  —  but  deep  down  it  remains  the  old  structure;  the  pattern,  the  gestalt 
remains  the  old. 

Sannyas  simply  means  getting  rooted  in  the  idea  that  you  renounce  your  past.  I  don't  say 
renounce  the  world.  I  say  renounce  the  past  because  that  has  really  been  your  world.  I 
don't  say  renounce  your  relationships.  I  say  renounce  yourself.  I  don't  say  renounce 
money;  I  don't  say  renounce  anything  outwardly.  I  simply  say  have  deep  renunciation 
inside  so  that  you  simply  wipe  out  the  whole  past  and  you  start  creating  a  new  world. 

For  a  few  days  you  will  have  to  remember  it...  only  for  a  few  days.  For  at  least  three 
weeks  you  will  have  to  remember  again  and  again  that  you  are  not  the  old.  Then  things 
settle,  a  new  centre  arises  and  you  start  feeling  grounded  in  the  new. 

And  I  give  you  a  beautiful  name  just  to  remind  you  that  one  has  to  become  a  song,  the 
Lord's  song.  That's  everybody's  destiny,  and  unless  we  become  that,  we  suffer. 

The  whole  human  suffering  consists  of  our  not  finding  that  which  we  are  meant  to  be.  If 
we  are  meant  to  be  a  rose  flower,  we  don't  know  how  to  become  a  rose  flower.  Or  if  we 
are  meant  to  be  a  lotus,  we  don't  know  how  to  become  a  lotus.  The  whole  suffering 
consists  in  our  somehow  going  on  missing  our  destiny.  The  song  remains  unsung.  That's 
exactly  what  misery  is;  everything  else  is  accidental  This  is  real  misery  —  that  you  cannot 
sing  the  song  you  have  come  to  sing...  that  you  cannot  bloom  into  the  flower  that  you 
have  been  carrying  in  your  heart  for  so  many  lives.  And  unless  the  song  is  sung,  one  is 
not  freed.  Freedom  comes  at  the  exact  moment  when  you  flower.  The  moment  of 
fulfillment  and  the  moment  of  freedom  are  just  two  aspects  of  the  same  phenomenon. 

And  much  is  possible.  Just  allow  it  to  happen! 

Deva  means  divine,  asawa  means  wine,  divine  wine.  And  I  give  you  this  for  a  particular 
reason.  From  this  very  moment  be  drunk  with  me.  Become  a  drunkard  —  sing,  dance, 
celebrate.  Let  joy  be  your  path.  And  if  one  can  be  really  joyful,  there  is  no  need  for  any 
other  prayer. 

Joy  is  the  greatest  prayer,  and  when  we  are  delighted,  when  we  are  in  simple  delight,  we 
are  in  tune  with  God. 

So  never  be  serious  and  never  be  sad,  because  to  be  sad  is  a  complaint  against  God.  To  be 
serious  in  fact  is  a  rejection  of  God's  world.  Remain  joyous.  Make  it  your  very  style  of 
life  —  and  you  can;  it  is  simple.  I  can  see  it  in  your  energy.  It  is  so  good.  If  you  just  allow 
it,  the  dance  will  arise. 

[A  visitor  says:  I  don't  know  what  love  is.  I  feel  very  closed...  The  more  I'm  here,  the 
more  I  feel  it.] 


And  the  more  you  become  aware  —  that's  right.  In  the  ordinary  world  everybody  is  closed 
just  like  you,  so  you  don't  have  any  comparison.  And  ordinary  life  is  so  loveless  that 
everybody  can  think  that  he  loves  very  much.  Whenever  you  come  in  contact  with  real 
love,  then  the  problem  will  arise.  Whenever  you  come  close  to  people  who  are  open, 
more  open  than  you,  flowing,  then  you  will  feel  that  you  are  closed,  because  then 
comparison  arises. 

But  you  have  felt  something  which  is  there.  It  is  good  that  you  have  become  aware  of  it; 
now  do  something  about  it.  If  you  remain  closed,  you  remain  dead.  It  is  as  if  when  the 
whole  sky  was  available,  you  were  just  looking  from  the  keyhole.  Of  course  you  can  see 
a  little  sky  from  the  keyhole  also,  and  sometimes  a  ray  of  sun  passes  by;  sometimes  you 
can  see  a  flickering  star.  But  this  is  unnecessarily  hard  and  you  remain  poor 
unnecessarily. 

Come  out  of  it  —  and  you  can  come  out  of  it.  Just  try  one  small  experiment  back  home. 
Every  night  before  you  go  to  sleep,  just  stand  in  the  middle  of  the  room  and  look  at  the 
wall.  Concentrate  on  the  wall;  not  the  door,  the  wall.  Think  of  yourself  as  just  a  wall  with 
no  door  in  you;  completely  closed.  Nobody  can  enter  you  and  you  cannot  get  out  — 
imprisoned.  Almost  become  a  wall,  psychologically.  Let  your  whole  energy  become  a 
wall,  a  china  wall. 

For  ten  minutes  become  the  wall  and  become  tense,  as  tense  as  you  can  become.  Drop  all 
openings  and  become  absolutely  dosed  —  what  Leibnitz  calls  a  monad,  a  windowless 
atom;  completely  closed  within  yourself.  You  will  start  perspiring,  you  will  start 
trembling;  anxiety  will  arise.  You  will  feel  as  if  you  are  dying,  as  if  you  are  entering  your 
grave.  Don't  be  worried  —  enter  it.  Bring  it  to  a  climax  —  this  tension,  this  contraction, 
this  shrinking. 

Then  turn,  look  at  the  door,  keep  the  door  open  and  become  a  door.  Start  feeling  that  you 
are  becoming  a  door;  you  are  not  a  wall.  Anybody  can  come  in  you  —  there  is  no  need 
even  to  knock.  And  you  can  go  out;  there  is  no  barrier.  Relax...  relax  the  whole  body  and 
the  whole  feeling.  Expand.  Remain  standing  there,  but  expand.  Feel  that  you  are  filling 
the  whole  room.  Feel  that  your  energy  is  streaming  out  of  the  door  into  the  garden.  Just 
let  the  energy  go  out,  and  feel  that  the  outer  world  is  entering  you.  For  ten  minutes 
become  a  wall,  and  for  twenty  minutes  become  a  door.  Then  go  to  sleep.  Continue  this 
for  at  least  three  months.  After  the  third  week  you  will  start  feeling  so  open,  but  continue. 
I  am  giving  you  both  so  you  can  feel  the  contrast  more  easily. 

Once  you  can  understand  your  own  energy  —  that  it  becomes  a  wall,  it  becomes  a  door  — 
then  you  will  become  aware  of  a  very  beautiful  dimension.  Then  you  can  feel  others' 
energies.  You  pass  a  man  on  the  street;  you  can  feel  whether  this  man  is  a  wall  or  a  door. 
Now  you  have  an  inner  understanding  about  it.  Then  if  you  want  to  relate  with  this  man, 
don't  relate  when  you  feel  he  is  a  wall,  because  then  nothing  will  succeed.  Only  relate 
when  you  feel  that  he  is  a  door. 

Many  times  this  can  become  such  a  deep  experience  in  relationships,  that  you  cannot 
imagine  it.  You  fall  in  love  with  a  woman  without  knowing  whether  she  is  a  wall  or  a 
door.  If  she  is  a  wall,  maybe  she  looks  beautiful  but  that  is  meaningless.  She  has  a 
beautiful  nose,  a  long  nose,  very  shapely,  beautiful  eyes,  but  what  to  do  with  eyes  and 
nose?  If  she  is  a  wall,  you  will  be  in  misery. 

So  the  basic  thing  to  be  felt  is  whether  she  is  a  door,  whether  she  is  an  opening,  and  if 
you  go  into  her,  whether  she  will  allow  you  in  or  will  obstruct  the  path.  If  people  become 


more  aware  of  their  own  energy  phenomena  their  whole  life  will  be  totally  different. 

Then  they  will  fall  in  love  with  a  person\who  is  a  door,  not  a  wall.  Then  they  will  find 
moments  when  people  are  doors  —  because  people  change.  In  the  morning  somebody 
may  be  a  door;  by  the  evening  he  may  become  a  wall  —  because  the  whole  day  has  been 
of  struggle,  fight,  tension,  anxiety,  and  one  tends  to  close. 

So  approach  a  person  when  he  is  a  door,  and  the  same  person  will  be  totally  different. 
Approach  your  child  when  he  is  a  door.  Then  he  will  listen,  then  he  is  ready  to  absorb 
what  you  say.  Otherwise  you  go  on  shouting.  He  is  deaf;  he  is  a  wall.  Talk  to  your  wife 
when  she  is  a  door.  Make  love  to  her  when  she  is  a  door.  When  she  is  a  wall,  it  is  better 
not  to  disturb  her.  But  once  you  know  it  as  your  inner  feeling,  then  you  can  feel  it 
everywhere. 

Then  you  can  find  who  is  your  master  —  not  before  it.  Unless  you  can  see  a  gateless  gate 
....  You  can  be  attracted  to  someone's  teachings;  that  won't  help.  You  can  be  attracted  by 
his  persona;  that  won't  help.  He  may  be  a  very  charming  person,  he  may  have  a  charisma, 
a  sort  of  magnetism.  That  is  not  going  to  help  unless  he  is  a  door  —  a  door  to  the  divine. 
Many  people  live  a  miserable  life  because  they  miss  this  very  basic  perception, 
perceptivity;  and  one  should  start  it  from  the  inner. 

[A  sannyasin  says  she  is  not  ready  for  sannyas.  Osho  tells  her  her  energy  is  ready.] 

Go  with  it.  Your  energy  is  simply  flowing  beautifully.  Go  with  it...  be  possessed  by  it. 
That  is  one  of  the  basic  human  problems  —  we  try  to  possess  the  energy,  we  try  to  control 
the  beauty  of  it.  We  never  do  anything  which  is  beyond  our  control.  We  always  want  to 
remain  in  control.  That  makes  you  very  limited.  That  makes  you  very  small,  because  your 
control  cannot  be  for  the  infinite,  and  your  control  cannot  be  for  the  whole.  You  choose 
by  your  own  choice  to  remain  miserable  and  small  and  tiny  and  confined  to  a  very  small 
prison  cell. 

Now  this  energy  is  coming  like  a  tidal  wave;  go  with  it.  Why  be  afraid?  Why  cling  to  the 
small?  Always  choose  the  big,  the  vast.  I  don't  see  the  point  of  why  you  should  lag 
behind. 

[She  answers:  I  don't  want  to  jump.  I  want  to  feel  the  ground.] 

There  is  no  ground!  It  is  an  abyss.  The  jump  means  a  jump  into  the  abyss.  I'm  not  saying 
that  there  is  any  ground:  there  is  none.  I  am  saying  that  all  ground  is  false  imagination. 
Because  we  are  not  ready  to  jump,  we  imagine  a  ground  underneath.  We  think  we  are 
safe.  But  there  is  no  ground  —  just  look!  The  floor  does  not  exist;  it  is  just  imaginary. 
Because  of  our  fear,  we  go  on  thinking  that  we  are  moving  well-grounded.  But  where  are 
you  grounded? 

Life  is  an  abyss.  There  is  no  beginning  and  no  end,  so  there  cannot  be  any  ground. 
Sannyas  is  nothing  but  to  recognise  the  fact  that  we  are  in  the  abyss,  that  there  exists  no 
ground.  And  we  are  not  trying  for  any  ground.  We  are  ready  to  enjoy  this  abysmal 
beauty. 

No,  I  am  not  saying  that  I  will  give  you  any  ground.  People  who  have  ground  —  I  take  it 
away.  I  lead  them  into  that  emptiness.  In  the  beginning  it  is  very  scary  —  naturally.  One 
feels  very  frightened  because  one  has  become  accustomed  so  much  to  living  on  the 


ground.  But  by  and  by  you  feel  a  certain  freedom  arising  in  you.  When  there  is  no 
ground,  suddenly  you  see  that  your  wings  are  opening.  Then  you  start  flying. 

And  when  there  is  no  ground,  by  and  by  you  feel  that  your  freedom  is  unlimited.  Then 
the  very  insecurity  becomes  your  security.  Then  there  is  no  death,  because  death  happens 
only  because  you  cling  to  the  ground.  The  ground  is  illusory.  One  day  or  other  it  will  be 
taken  away;  hence  death  exists. 

When  you  accept  that  there  is  no  ground,  immediately  all  death  disappears,  because 
nothing  can  be  taken  away  from  you.  You  don't  have  anything. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  feel  dizzy.  It's  not  physical,  but  every  day  has  been  so  meaningful  — 

I  just  wonder,  'What  next?'  I  feel  that  something  has  opened  in  me.] 

Mm,  it  has  opened  —  that's  why  the  excitement.  Excitement  is  life.  One  should  always 
live  in  tremendous  excitement  and  readiness  to  be  surprised,  never  taking  things  for 
granted.  One  can  never  take  anything  for  granted.  The  moment  you  take  anything  for 
granted,  a  part  of  you  dies.  If  you  start  taking  your  whole  life  for  granted,  you  are  dead. 
That's  how  people  die  before  their  death. 

In  fact  if  you  have  the  eyes  to  see,  you  will  see  dead  bodies  walking  on  the  road,  going 
from  here  to  there,  in  the  offices,  in  the  factories,  in  the  shops,  coming  back  home;  but 
dead  bodies,  automatic,  robots.  They  have  died  long  ago.  They  died  the  day  they  thought 
that  life  is  just  something  which  has  happened.  They  lost  excitement.  You  cannot  surprise 
them.  They  know  everything. 

So  remain  in  a  state  of  unknowing.  Remain  in  a  state  of  subtle  excitement  and  you  will 
remain  alive.  Your  life  will  grow  more  and  more  every  day.  Expect  nothing,  but  be  ready 
for  everything.  Anything  can  happen  —  even  God.  Expect  nothing,  because  expectation 
kills  excitement,  and  expectation  creates  frustration.  Expect  nothing  and  be  ready  for 
everything.  Then  small  things  will  be  so  beautiful.  Ordinary  pebbles  on  the  shore  are  like 
precious  diamonds  and  the  whole  world  is  so  beautiful  then. 

If  you  have  the  eyes  which  are  open  and  ready  to  be  surprised,  eyes  which  are  ready  to 
wonder,  a  heart  which  is  ready  to  be  in  the  state  of  awe,  then  everything  is  beautiful.  It  is 
a  great  epic,  this  life.  It  is  a  great  dance,  this  life,  and  each  moment  is  unique;  it  is  not  a 
repetition.  Nothing  every  repeats. 

So  be  thrilled,  and  live  more  and  more  in  a  thrilling,  streaming  way.  Don't  get 
accustomed,  don't  make  your  life  a  routine,  a  mechanical  thing,  and  much  more  will 
become  possible  every  day. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  just  keep  creating  the  same  problems  —  the  same  melancholia, 
thinking  about  things  that  aren't  necessarily  negative  in  a  negative  way.  Things  that  don't 
fit  into  my  usual  pattern,  I  take  in  a  negative  way.] 

You  have  a  negative  shadow  which  hangs  around  you,  and  in  your  moments  of 
unawareness,  it  overpowers  you.  Then  you  become  completely  identified  with  it,  and  you 
are  no  more  yourself.  Then  you  say  and  do  things  for  which  you  will  repent  afterwards  — 
and  you  do  repent. 

So  this  has  to  be  understood:  don't  get  identified  with  your  negative  shadow.  Remain 
aloof,  otherwise  it  can  be  very  destructive.  You  do  something,  create  something,  and  then 


you  get  identified  with  the  negative;  then  all  that  is  created  is  destroyed  again.  The 
positive  is  really  fragile  and  the  negative  is  very  strong.  The  positive  is  like  a  rose  flower 
and  the  negative  is  like  a  rock.  It  is  dead  but  it  is  very  strong,  and  if  you  throw  the  rock 
on  the  rose  flower,  the  rose  flower  will  be  crushed. 

The  higher  is  always  fragile,  the  lower  is  always  strong.  The  higher  is  delicate,  soft;  the 
lower  is  rough  and  rude.  The  negative  is  the  lower  part.  So  whenever  you  get  identified, 
you  wash  away  many  things  that  you  were  creating.  Something  beautiful  was  going  to  be 
there.  Again  the  rock  falls  and  crushes  it.  Again  you  have  to  start  from  ABC.  This  I  have 
been  watching.  Now  you  have  to  be  alert  about  it. 

When  you  feel  in  a  negative  mood,  make  one  point  certain.  Don't  say  anything  in  that 
mood,  and  don't  do  anything  in  that  mood.  In  that  mood,  simply  remain  closed  with 
yourself...  become  completely  withdrawn.  Lie  down  on  the  bed.  Eat,  go  to  sleep.  Lie 
down  in  your  bath,  relax,  but  don't  do  anything.  Don't  relate,  don't  make  any  decisions, 
because  those  decisions  will  be  wrong  and  they  will  undo  the  work  of  many  days  and 
then  you  suffer. 

[The  sannyasin  answers:  That's  what's  happening  now,  but  I  didn't  feel  it  was  because  of 
me;  it  was  a  matter  of  what  was  happening  in  the  world.] 

No,  no,  that  is  another  thing.  I'm  not  talking  about  that.  The  world  goes  on  changing  and 
you  have  to  change  many  times.  That's  not  the  thing.  I'm  talking  about  your  inner  growth. 
Many  times  you  create  something  beautiful,  and  you  destroy  it  —  you  destroy  it  within  a 
few  moments. 

So  you  have  to  be  alert  about  this  from  now  on.  Decide  to  do  things  only  when  you  are 
positive;  when  you  are  happy,  flowing,  loving,  trusting.  Don't  do  anything  when  you  are 
not  positive  —  and  that  will  save  much  energy.  Soon  you  will  realise  its  benefits. 


The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #12 
Chapter  title:  None 

1  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609015 
ShortTitle:  PASSI012 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[A  sannyasin  who  is  going  back  to  the  West  said  she  ran  groups  in  a  mental  hospital  and 
also  privately,  but  she  worries  about  being  too  serious.] 

No,  don't  do  it,  because  then  it  becomes  almost  impossible  to  live.  As  humanity  is,  it 
needs  many  lies,  many  pretensions,  many  pretexts.  If  you  are  talking  to  a  child,  you  talk 
in  a  language  that  the  child  understands.  Maybe  it  is  not  the  right  thing  to  say,  maybe  you 
can  explain  it  in  a  more  scientific  way,  but  then  the  child  won't  understand.  When  you  are 
talking  to  a  child,  you  talk  in  his  language,  knowing  well  that  whatsoever  you  are  saying 


is  arbitrary  and  when  the  child  grows  he  will  know  that  those  things  were  just  ways  of 
saying  things.  He  will  understand. 

So  what  I  suggest  is,  one  has  to  go  on  playing  many  games.  One  should  play  non- 
seriously,  and  one  should  remember  that  they  are  games.  One  should  not  forget  that  —  but 
there  is  no  need  to  become  serious  about  it. 

[The  sannyasin  said:I  carry  in  me  also,  somewhere,  a  fear  of  going  crazy.] 

Everybody  carries  it.  And  unless  you  enter  that  fear,  you  will  always  remain  afraid  of  it. 
To  dissolve  fear,  the  only  way  is  to  get  into  it.  If  you  feel  that  you  have  a  fear  of  going 
crazy,  make  it  a  point  that  at  least  once  in  twenty-four  hours,  for  one  hour,  go  crazy. 

Don't  go  on  accumulating  it. 

Nothing  is  wrong  in  being  crazy.  That  is  also  a  game;  a  few  people  decide  to  play  it.  And 
there  is  nothing  valuable  in  what  you  call  sanity.  It  is  just  a  question  of  choice,  what  you 
decide  to  play,  what  game  you  want  to  play.  Then  you  have  to  follow  the  rules.  Crazy 
people  follow  their  rules. 

For  one  hour  in  the  night,  when  the  day  is  finished,  close  your  doors,  sit  in  your  bed  and 
go  crazy.  Do  crazy  things  and  enjoy  it.  Be  a  child  again,  a  madman  and  a  mystic.  Don't 
judge  it  and  don't  condemn  it.  That  too  is  a  dimension. 

There  are  a  few  things  only  crazy  people  know;  nobody  else  can  know  them.  They  live  in 
a  totally  different  sort  of  relationship  with  existence.  They  know  a  certain  door  to  reality 
which  the  so-called  sane  people  have  completely  forgotten.  They  have  a  certain  access  to 
their  unconscious.  They  dive  deep  into  their  own  being  and  they  bring  up  beautiful  pearls. 
They  live  in  a  different  rhythm,  in  a  different  vibration.  I  am  not  saying  become  crazy.  I 
am  saying  remain  available. 

To  me  the  perfect  man  is  one  who  is  available  to  all  dimensions,  who  is  able  to  move 
contradictorily,  who  is  able  to  allow  paradox.  That  is  my  definition  of  a  perfect  man. 
When  he  wants  to  play  the  game  of  sanity,  he  is  as  sane  as  anybody  can  be.  Then  he  can 
defeat  Aristotle.  He  can  be  as  logical  as  possible.  Then  he  follows  the  whole  game  and 
the  rules.  But  if  he  wants  to  play  the  game  of  being  crazy,  then  he  is  a  paramahansa.  He 
does  not  care  a  bit  about  logic.  He  can  be  as  absurd  as  Bodhidharma. 

When  Bodhidharma  entered  China,  he  had  one  shoe  on  his  foot  and  one  on  his  head. 
When  the  Emperor  came  to  receive  him,  he  was  embarrassed  because  he  had  heard  so 
many  stories  about  this  man  —  and  here  comes  this  man  who  looks  like  a  clown! 

[Osho  said  that  the  Emperor  had  travelled  far  to  meet  Bodhidharma,  and  had  spent  much 
time  in  preparing  to  receive  him.  Being  a  Confucian,  the  Emperor  managed  to  contain 
himself  until  he  was  alone  with  what  appeared  to  be  this  madman,  and  asked  him  why  he 
was  carrying  a  shoe  on  his  head. 

Bodhidharma  said  that  he  wanted  the  Emperor  to  have  no  illusions,  no  expectations  about 
him.  Sometimes  he  was  a  philosopher,  sometimes  a  madman.  He  was  not  fixed  in  any 
role,  in  any  pattern.  He  said  this  was  a  device  to  shock,  so  that  from  the  very  beginning 
no  one  should  be  deluded  about  him.] 

A  perfect  man  is  paradoxical.  A  perfect  man  has  no  character;  he  is  characterless.  That's 
his  holiness,  because  he's  whole.  He  has  no  limitation;  he  has  everything  in  him.  If  a 


person  is  fixed  too  much  in  his  sanity  and  cannot  relax  even  for  a  few  moments  and 
become  non-serious,  then  that  man  is  really  mad  —  if  you  follow  my  understanding.  A 
man  who  is  so  sane  that  even  when  he  is  with  his  wife  in  bed  he  remains  sane,  is  insane. 
That  man  is  not  alive.  That  man  is  just  a  structure.  That  man  is  just  a  skeleton,  just  a 
shadow. 

If  he  cannot  play  with  his  children  and  become  a  child,  that  man  has  no  liquidity.  His 
juice  has  dried  up.  And  if  that  man  cannot  shake  hands  with  a  madman,  cannot  hold  the 
hand  of  a  madman,  cannot  fall  into  rapport  with  him;  if  it  is  impossible  for  him,  he  is  very 
limited  and  confined.  One  should  be  available  to  all  dimensions. 

And  that  is  my  definition  of  a  really  sane  man  —  one  who  is  even  so  capable,  so  fluid,  that 
sometimes  if  it  is  needed  he  can  become  a  madman;  nothing  holds  him.  If  you  throw  me 
into  a  madhouse,  I  will  become  a  madman,  because  what  is  the  point  of  being  sane  there? 
What  is  the  point?  I  will  become  mad!  I  will  prove  myself  even  madder  than  the  mad! 
Why  lag  behind  when  everybody  is  mad?  [laughter]  You  have  to  participate.  While  in 
Rome,  be  a  Roman.  That  is  one  of  the  most  wise  adages.  When  with  a  madman,  be  mad. 
When  with  a  sane  man,  be  sane.  When  with  a  child,  be  a  child.  When  with  an  old  man,  be 
old. 

[The  sannyasin  then  says:  Many  of  the  people  who  are  called  insane,  where  I  work,  I  like 
them  better  than  a  lot  of  the  people  who  run  the  place.] 

They  are,  because  they  have  never  done  any  harm  to  the  world.  In  fact  because  they  are 
better,  they  have  decided  to  drop  out.  This  world  is  not  for  them;  hence  they  have  gone 
mad.  They  have,  started  to  play  the  game  of  being  mad.  They  are  simple  people,  innocent 
people,  and  sometimes  more  intelligent  than  the  ordinary  run  of  the  mill.  Love  them  and 
never  judge  them.  While  you  are  with  them,  be  just  like  them.  Then  they  will  understand 
you  and  you  will  understand  them. 

And  drop  this  attitude  of  being  serious.  Life  is  a  game  —  play  it!  Serious  people  tend  to 
become  what  you  call  'spoil-sports'.  Wherever  you  put  them,  they  will  spoil  the  whole 
thing  by  their  seriousness.  Your  so-called  saints  are  all  spoil-sports. 

[The  sannyasin  says:  My  tendency  is  to  always  be  serious  when  it  comes  to  the  business 
of  enlightenment.] 

Not  even  there!  If  you  are  serious  anywhere  else,  it  is  not  so  dangerous.  But  if  you  are 
serious  when  it  comes  to  enlightenment,  then  it  is  absolutely  wrong.  Anywhere  you  can 
be  forgiven,  but  not  there,  because  enlightenment  is  only  for  non-serious  people. 

Nobody  has  ever  heard  that  any  serious  person  became  enlightened.  It  doesn't  happen  in 
the  nature  of  things,  because  a  serious  person  remains  serious,  closed,  calculating.  He  is 
never  available  to  the  wilderness  that  life  is.  He  is  never  available  to  God.  Even  if  he 
encounters  God,  he  will  have  his  own  conditions. 

Even  God  is  afraid  of  serious  people.  He. still  comes  and  plays  with  children,  and  He  still 
comes  and  talks  with  madmen.  He  has  stopped  communicating  with  serious  people  long 
ago.  So  don't  make  the  idea  of  enlightenment  a  nightmare.  Take  it  easy. 

In  fact,  if  you  can  take  all  that  life  makes  available  non-seriously,  you  are  enlightened.  If 
you  can  understand  that  life  is  a  game,  a  leela,  a  play,  you  are  enlightened. 


Enlightenment  is  not  something  that  one  has  to  achieve.  It  is  just  a  vision  that  happens  to 
a  liquid  person.  It  comes  to  a  relaxed  person.  It  is  not  that  you  go  to  enlightenment.  If  you 
are  relaxed,  collecting  seashells  on  the  beach,  splashing  in  the  river  or  just  fooling 
around,  it  comes  to  you. 

And  sometimes  it  is  needed  to  pretend.  If  you  feel  it  is  going  to  help  somebody,  pretend.  I 
allow  you  even  to  he  if  you  feel  that  yes,  this  is  going  to  help  —  because  people  are  in 
such  a  state,  even  lies  help  them.  If  you  feel  that  this  he  is  going  to  be  creative,  don't  be 
worried.  This  is  what  I  call  the  whole-hearted  readiness  to  live. 

And  take  life  as  being  more  like  poetry  than  like  a  syllogism.  In  poetry  you  have  much 
more  freedom  than  in  prose,  and  you  can  play  around  with  language  too.  In  fact  the 
greater  the  poetry,  the  lesser  is  the  impact  of  language  on  it.  In  real  poetry,  language 
becomes  almost  irrelevant,  and  the  rules  of  grammar  and  linguistics  become  absolutely 
useless.  The  higher  a  poetry  rises,  the  higher  it  rises  beyond  rules,  regulations,  forms, 
formalities  and  the  same  happens  in  life.  The  more  you  understand  it,  the  higher  you  rise. 
But  when  I  say  'the  higher  you  rise'  I  don't  mean  that  you  escape  from  this  ordinary 
mundane  life.  No  —  you  remain  there,  but  now  you  don't  take  it  seriously. 

Then  you  enjoy  whatsoever  is.  You  enjoy  your  failure  and  you  enjoy  your  success.  You 
enjoy  both  so  tremendously  that  you  cannot  figure  out  which  is  which.  Then  it  is  perfect; 
everything  is  going  perfect  then. 

Enlightenment  will  come  seeking  you  —  don't  be  worried  about  it.  It  never  comes  to 
people  who  are  waiting  for  it,  never.  It  comes  only  to  those  people  who  have  completely 
forgotten  about  it.  One  day  suddenly  they  find  one  morning  that  they  are  enlightened. 

It  is  just  like  lightning.  A  shudder  goes  through  your  being  because  you  have  nothing  to 
bar  the  way,  no  hindrance  now.  It  can  happen  in  any  situation.  It  can  happen  in  odd 
postures;  it  can  happen  in  strange  ways.  It  can  happen  anywhere.  It  is  not  that  it  happens 
only  under  a  bodhi  tree,  or  it  happens  only  in  temples  or  in  the  Himalayas.  It  has  nothing 
to  do  with  anything  outside  you.  You  just  have  to  remain  open  so  that  the  inside  becomes 
more  and  more  available  —  and  flexible,  so  whatsoever  happens  can  vibrate  in  the  same 
frequency,  with  the  same  rhythm. 

Go  happily,  relaxed,  looking  at  life  as  a  beautiful  game.  It  is  a  beautiful  game. 

[The  sannyasin  therapist  says:  But  between  groups  it  seems  that  I  don't  seem  to  be  able  to 
find  a  comfortable  space  to  be  in.  I  don't  have  the  same  relationship  with  myself  that  I 
have  in  the  groups.] 

It  is  very  indicative  and  has  to  be  understood.  When  you  are  working  with  people,  you 
are  so  much  involved  in  the  work  that  you  forget  the  sense  of  self.  That  happens  to  many 
creative  people.  They  forget  their  work.  A  painter  painting,  a  singer  singing,  a  dancer 
dancing...  there  come  moments  when  their  whole  energy  suddenly  is  flowing  into  the 
work,  has  become  a  creative  rush,  and  the  self  is  no  more  there,  because  the  self  exists 
only  when  the  energy  is  stagnant. 

The  stagnant  energy  becomes  the  self.  When  the  energy  is  like  a  river,  you  have  no  self. 
So  self  is  a  sort  of  a  block.  Whenever  there  is  no  flow,  energy  is  not  going  anywhere, 
suddenly  the  block  is  there;  one  feels  confined.  Then  you  will  feel  negative.  You  will  feel 
a  little  restless  because  this  self  is  like  a  rock  on  the  chest.  But  this  happens  only  to 
creative  people.  For  uncreative  people  just  the  reverse  is  the  rule. 


If  an  uncreative  person  forces  himself  into  any  creativity,  he  becomes  very  self- 
conscious.  He  becomes  very  anxious,  worried  and  tense,  restless.  When  he  is  out  of  the 
work  he  is  okay;  he  is  at  home. 

So  the  difference  between  a  creative  and  a  non-creative  person  has  to  be  understood.  And 
it  is  good  that  one  is  a  creative  person.  Your  meditation,  your  growth  is  through 
creativity.  These  groups  are  not  just  groups  —  these  are  your  canvases  on  which  you  are 
painting.  These  are  your  poems  that  you  are  composing.  When  you  see  somebody 
flowering,  somebody  radiant,  a  poem  is  born  and  you  feel  fulfilled.  You  suddenly  feel 
enhanced.  You  recognise,  you  realise  your  worth,  mm?  —  this  man  has  flowered,  this 
woman  is  smiling  so  beautifully.  Then  you  are  happy.  This  is  the  happiness  of  a  creative 
person. 

A  creative  person  is  happy  only  when  something  beautiful  is  created.  A  creative  person's 
heaven  is  in  creativity.  If  you  throw  Michelangelo  or  Leonardo  da  Vinci  into  heaven  — 
the  heaven  of  the  uncreative  people,  who  are  just  sitting  there  doing  nothing  —  they  will 
run  out  of  it!  They  will  say,  'What  is  this?  This  is  hell!'  They  may  even  like  to  go  to  hell  if 
some  creativity  is  possible  —  somewhere  where  their  energies  can  stream,  flow,  can 
create  new  patterns  of  life;  where  something  can  be  invented,  discovered;  where 
something  can  be  added  to  existence  as  it  is.  Maybe  it  is  a  very  small  thing,  it  doesn't 
matter.  A  creative  person  feels  good,  fulfilled,  arrived,  when  he  can  make  this  world  a 
little  more  beautiful...  just  a  small  touch  somewhere. 

So  that  simply  shows  your  state  of  energy  and  your  type.  So  whenever  you  are  not 
creative,  you  will  feel  a  little  restless,  because  the  same  energy  that  was  moving  into 
creativity  will  not  find  anywhere  to  move  or  anything  to  do.  Your  rest  will  become 
restless.  In  fact,  when  you  will  be  tremendously  deep  in  your  work  —  howsoever  hard  — 
you  will  be  resting.  So  rest  is  not  always  rest  for  everybody. 

For  a  creative  person,  his  creativity  is  his  rest.  Maybe  sometimes  he  can  change.  He  has 
been  painting  for  the  whole  week.  For  one  day  he  simply  writes  poems,  or  just  goes  into 
the  garden  and  starts  working  there.  A  change  of  activity  is  his  rest.  His  rest  is  not  no¬ 
activity.  So  if  you  really  want  to  be  rested,  change  the  activity.  Rush  from  one  activity  to 
another,  and  let  your  river  tumble  from  one  place  into  another.  When  you  are  alone  write 
poems,  paint,  sing,  play  the  guitar,  dance  —  any  crazy  thing  will  do  —  but  something;  just 
don't  sit  there.  Sitting  there  won't  be  of  much  help  to  you.  You  will  come  out  of  it  more 
tired  than  rested.  Change  of  activity  —  that's  your  rest  —  and  losing  yourself  in  creativity 
is  your  meditation. 

This  is  something  very  complicated.  In  the  East  meditation  has  existed  for  thousands  of 
years,  but  it  seems  that  only  non-creative  people  became  interested  in  it  because  it  doesn't 
give  one  any  creative  channel.  So  science  never  arose.  Everything  creative  lagged  behind. 
Only  people  who  could  sit  silently  and  could  lose  themselves  in  non-activity  moved  into 
this  meditative  dimension.  And  because  of  them  the  whole  East  became  a  little 
uncreative. 

In  the  West  creative  people  have  never  tried  meditation  because  they  think  it  is  not  for 
them.  Their  instinct  says  to  them  'This  is  not  for  you.  You  have  to  be  creative.  This  will 
be  an  escape.'  So  they  become  more  and  more  tense,  more  and  more  worried. 

Now  it  is  possible  that  East  and  West  can  meet.  The  human  consciousness  has  come  to  a 
point  where  vision  is  more  clear,  where  we  can  look  at  the  past  as  a  total  perspective.  For 
the  creative  person,  meditation  has  to  become  a  part  of  his  creativity,  then  only  can  it  be 


meditative.  And  for  a  non-creative  person,  his  silence  is  his  only  creativity;  his  inactivity 
is  his  only  creativity.  He  creates  himself  in  that  inactivity.  Both  come  to  a  realisation,  but 
their  paths  are  very  different. 

So  simply  go  on  working,  and  now  work  knowing  more  that  this  is  your  meditation. 
While  working  don't  simply  think  that  you  are  helping  the  group,  and  that  after  the  group 
you  will  rest  and  meditate  for  one  week.  That's  a  wrong  idea.  While  working,  remember 
that  this  is  your  meditation.  And  you  are  not  only  working  on  the  group  and  on  other 
people;  simultaneously,  side  by  side,  you  are  working  on  yourself.  This  is  your  way  of 
working  on  yourself.  This  is  just  a  technique  for  you  to  work  on  yourself. 

[Osho  said  that  if  he  used  his  work  for  meditation,  then  there  would  be  no  conflict  in  the 
mind  about  when  he  would  have  time  to  work  on  himself  or  to  meditate.  Without  any 
conflict,  his  work  would  move  to  even  higher  peaks. 

Osho  said  that  in  the  days  that  there  was  no  group,  he  should  simply  change  his  activity, 
because  the  mind  has  many  centres  for  many  different  activities,  and  when  one  centre  is 
functioning,  others  can  rest  (see  Hammer  On  The  Rock,  December  13th,  1975,  where 
Osho  talks  about  this  in  more  detail).! 

[A  newly  arrived  sannyasin  says:  I'll  be  here  when  hindi  lectures  are  on  so  I  won't  be  able 
to  understand  the  discourses.] 

Sometimes  it  is  good  to  understand  without  language,  so  one  month  you  understand  me 
through  language  and  one  month  you  understand  me  without  language.  And  sometimes 
without  language,  things  go  deeper.  You  just  have  to  sit  and  feel  me,  and  that  will  do 
everything. 

There  is  a  deeper  language  than  language,  and  there  is  a  more  direct  communication  than 
verbal.  There  is  a  possibility  to  commune  without  any  symbology  in  between.  The 
communion  can  be  immediate.  And  in  fact  that  is  the  real  communion. 

Sol  speak  only  to  persuade  you  to  be  available  for  the  other  communion.  But  the  other 
remains  the  goal.  Once  you  start  enjoying  my  presence,  once  you  start  moving  with  my 
presence  and  you  start  falling  in  tune  with  me,  then  there  is  no  point. 

Much  is  going  to  happen  —  you  are  ready.  Good. 

[A  sannyasin  came  to  darshan  with  his  partner,  as  she  was  upset  and  jealous  of  his 
demonstrative  behaviour  and  affection  for  members  of  the  music  group  of  which  he  is  a 
member.  He  added  that  his  partner  recognised  that  her  feelings  were  stupid.] 

Saying  so  is  not  the  point.  She  does  not  understand  it.  She  says  it  is  stupid  because  she 
hears  me  and  reads  me  and  tries  to  understand.  She  thinks  that  it  is  stupid  but  her  whole 
being  is  feeling  miserable.  So  just  calling  names  won't  help.  If  you  care  for  her,  stop  these 
things.  Or  if  you  feel  that  they  are  more  valuable  than  her  relationship,  then  drop  out  of 
the  relationship  —  but  decide  something. 

(turning  to  the  woman)  And  you  have  to  understand  that  your  jealousy  is  not  only  stupid  - 
-  because  just  by  saying  it  is  stupid,  it  doesn’t....  It  is  destructive.  It  is  not  only  wrong  —  it 
is  harmful.  It  is  killing  your  whole  relationship.  If  you  can  be  happy  only  when  he  is 


completely  in  bondage  and  a  slave,  and  he  cannot  even  embrace  a  person,  then  he  will 
never  be  able  to  forgive  you,  because  he  is  doing  it  for  your  love. 

He  may  stop  it  but  he  will  have  a  deep  grudge  against  you.  His  love  will  become 
poisonous.  He  will  never  feel  really  happy.  You  may  not  feel  jealous,  but  he  will  lose 
something  tremendously  valuable.  He  may  do  it  for  you.  That's  what  so  many  people  who 
have  a  little  understanding  go  on  doing.  If  the  woman  is  too  much  of  a  trouble,  then  the 
man  thinks  'Okay'.  But  the  woman  is  losing  something  very  valuable,  because  you  are 
forcing  him  by  your  jealousy;  you  are  destroying  his  freedom.  And  he  is  not  doing 
anything  wrong.  Nothing  is  wrong  in  it.  What  is  wrong  in  somebody  embracing  him, 
whether  it  is  a  man  or  a  woman? 

It  is  harmful.  You  have  a  very  poisonous  attitude.  And  rather  than  forcing  him,  you 
should  drop  your  jealousy.  If  you  love  the  man,  you  should  drop  it,  because  if  you  love 
the  man  you  love  his  freedom  and  you  would  like  him  to  be  free.  Any  woman  who  loves 
her  man  would  like  the  man  to  be  absolutely  free.  If  you  really  love  him  you  would  like 
every  woman  to  love  him.  This  is  your  man  and  every  woman  appreciates  him.  If  no 
woman  looks  at  him,  then  what  have  you  chosen?  If  [your  man]  goes  around  and  nobody, 
no  woman  looks  at  him,  no  woman  says  'Hello'...  just  think  about  it.  You  will  commit 
suicide.  What  type  of  a  man  will  you  have  chosen? 

He  is  a  beautiful  person.  Everybody  feels  love  for  a  beautiful  person;  nothing  is  wrong  in 
it.  So  what  I  have  said  to  him  I  have  not  said  to  you. (to  the  man)  And  what  I  have  said  to 
her,  I  am  not  saying  to  you  (laughter).  Otherwise  the  greater  possibility  is  that  you  will 
hear  what  I  am  saying  to  her  and  she  will  hear  what  I  am  saying  to  you.  Make  it 
absolutely  clear. 

(to  the  woman)  Drop  it!  And  it  is  just  that  a  little  understanding  is  needed.  Why  should 
you  feel  jealous?  If  you  have  a  beautiful  car  and  somebody  appreciates  it,  you  don't  feel 
jealous.  If  somebody  comes  and  touches  your  car  and  says,  'Beautiful,'  you  feel  very  good 
because  you  were  waiting  for  someone  to  come  and  say  this.  In  a  better  world  this  will  be 
so.  Some  woman  passes  by  and  she  sees  that  you  have  such  a  beautiful  man  and  she 
comes  and  touches  him  —  'You  have  such  a  beautiful  man'  —  you  will  feel  happy.  In  a 
better  world  this  is  going  to  be  so,  should  be  so. 

But  we  have  been  brought  up  with  very  wrong,  absurd  attitudes  —  harmful,  destructive, 
suicidal. 

[The  woman  says:  Also  part  of  it  is  feeling  inferior  about  myself.] 

That's  nothing  to  do  with  you.  It  simply  proves  your  superiority  —  that  you  have  chosen 
such  a  beautiful  man,  and  the  beautiful  man  has  chosen  you.  It  simply  proves  your 
superiority,  nothing  else.  Nothing  inferior  in  it.  That's  your  wrong  notion  about  it.  He  has 
chosen  you.  He  can  find  another  woman  easily,  but  out  of  all  the  women,  he  has  chosen 
you!  What  else  do  you  want? 

In  the  world  there  are  so  many  women  and  he  has  chosen  Mandala.  Just  think  about  it. 

But  you  are  destroying  the  whole  thing.  Something  is  wrong  in  your  attitude.  He  is  not 
doing  anything  wrong.  Start  dropping  it,  and  tell  him  that  he  is  completely  free,  that  he 
can  do  whatsoever  he  likes. 

Possessiveness  is  not  love.  I  have  given  you  both  different  methods  to  work  on.  I  hope 
you  will  not  misunderstand  me  but  will  settle  things.  After  three  weeks,  both  come,  (to 


the  woman)  And  you  are  not  to  be  worried  about  whether  he  is  doing  what  I  have  said  or 
not.  He  is  responsible  to  me,  not  to  you.  (to  the  woman)  And  she  is  responsible  to  me,  not 
you.  So  you  need  not  say  to  her  to  drop  her  jealousy. 

[A  sannyasin  said  she  felt  faint  many  times,  and:  I  also  feel  something  strange  in  my  head 

—  as  if  it  is  empty,  as  if  there  is  nothing  inside. 1 

That's  perfectly  good  —  there  is  nothing  inside! 

Nothing  is  wrong  with  you.  In  fact  something  very  good  is  happening,  but  it  happens  so 
suddenly  that  you  cannot  understand  it. 

That  blankness  is  just  a  part  of  meditation.  The  feeling  of  fainting  is  not  fainting  —  it  is 
just  moving  into  another  dimension.  Then  one  becomes  so  light  that  one  can  feel  that  the 
floor  is  going  up  and  down.  It  is  almost  a  feeling  of  levitation,  but  it  is  very  disorienting. 
So  start  doing  a  small  exercise. 

Every  night  before  you  go  to  sleep,  sit  and  just  feel  that  your  spine  is  joined  with  the 
earth  and  energy  is  running  into  your  spine  and  into  the  earth  like  electricity.  Just  as  we 
earth  a  wire,  so  your  spine  is  joined  with  the  earth,  and  the  earth  and  your  bodys  energies 
are  meeting.  Then  feel  that  your  spine  is  becoming  bigger  and  bigger,  stronger  and 
stronger;  it  is  becoming  solid  steel.  You  will  feel  within  three  or  four  days  that  the  spine 
has  become  a  very  solidish  thing.  This  you  have  to  do  for  ten  minutes  in  the  night,  but  sit 
on  the  floor  so  that  you  are  closer  to  the  earth.  And  sit  absolutely  still  —  no  shaking,  no 
trembling.  Just  sit  like  a  statue,  earthed,  grounded. 

In  Aikido  training  they  have  a  few  exercises  for  grounding  like  this.  If  a  person  is  sitting 
there  doing  this  exercise,  you  cannot  push  him  over.  Even  a  stronger  person  or  four  or 
five  people  cannot  push  him.  You  can  push  the  same  person  over  very  easily  when  he  is 
not  doing  this  exercise,  but  when  he  is  doing  this  exercise  and  once  he  knows  how  to  do 
it,  his  spine  becomes  a  steel-like  energy.  Then  it  is  impossible  to  push  him  or  pull  him. 
Even  very  fragile  people  can  prove  so  strong. 

There  have  been  many  experiments  done  on  it.  It  cannot  be  measured  on  ordinary  scales  - 

-  the  weight  remains  the  same,  so  it  is  a  miracle.  If  you  are  one  hundred  pounds,  you 
remain  one  hundred  pounds,  but  just  before  the  exercise  anybody  can  push  you  over,  and 
just  ten  minutes  after  the  exercise  you  are  so  grounded  —  as  if  the  whole  earth  is  pulling 
you  and  you  are  joined  with  it,  rooted. 

So  now  they  have  started  experimenting  with  body  energy  and  electricity,  bio-electricity. 
Now  they  have  come  to  a  point  where  it  is  possible  that  the  spine  becomes  joined,  really 
joined,  with  electricity.  In  Yoga,  people  are  trained  for  many  years  to  sit  with  a  straight 
spine,  unmoving,  statue-like.  That  makes  the  spine  like  steel,  a  very  strong  force.  These 
things  that  are  happening  to  you  will  not  happen  to  that  type  of  person  who  has  practised 
the  lotus  posture  or  others.  This  is  arising  only  because  your  spine  is  not  strong  enough 
and  gets  shaky.  When  the  energy  comes  in  it,  it  gets  shaky  and  you  don't  know  how  to 
ground  it  so  it  disorients  you  and  you  feel  like  fainting. 

Whenever  it  happens  —  and  it  will  continue  for  a  few  days  —  immediately  sit  there  and 
just  for  two  minutes  feel  grounded.  The  feeling  is  that  your  spine  is  as  if  almost  rooted 
like  a  tree  in  the  earth.  The  earth  is  giving  you  energy  and  your  energy  is  moving  into  the 
earth.  You  are  no  more  separate;  you  are  a  part  of  the  earth.  When  you  get  up  from  this 
posture,  don’t  get  up  suddenly.  Very  slowly  disconnect  yourself,  otherwise  you  will  go 


into  a  very  great  faint.  First  feel  that  you  are  grounded  and  are  getting  your  energy  back. 
Then  take  your  energy  back  slowly,  very  slowly  and  move  slowly. 

Do  it  for  ten  days  and  then  tell  me.  But  it  is  good  —  there  is  nothing  wrong. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #13 
Chapter  title:  None 

2  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609025 
ShortTitle:  PASSI013 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[A  visitor  says:  I've  come  here  hoping  with  my  heart  to  be  captured  by  something  and  I'm 
still  waiting. 

I  have  this  idea  that  I  won't  be  able  to  have  the  drive  to  follow  a  path  until  my  heart  is 
captured,  so  I'm  just  waiting.] 

Mm,  I  understand.  You  don't  know  your  own  strength  —  nobody  knows,  hence  the 
problem.  You  don't  know  what  you  can  do  and  what  you  can  be.  And  I  can  understand.  It 
is  difficult  to  know  unless  you  have  done  it.  By  doing  it  you  come  to  know  what  you  can 
do.  The  potentiality  in  itself  cannot  be  known  unless  it  becomes  actual. 

Everybody  is  so  infinitely  potential,  but  if  you  are  simply  waiting  for  somebody  to  do  it 
for  you,  it  will  never  happen,  because  there  are  things  which  cannot  be  done  for  you  by 
anybody  else.  If  you  want  to  move  in  love,  nobody  can  do  it  for  you.  You  will  have  to  fall 
in  love.  If  you  want  to  grow,  nobody  can  grow  for  you.  You  will  have  to  grow.  Yes, 
others  can  help,  they  can  show  the  path,  but  you  cannot  be  dragged.  That’s  what  you  are 
waiting  for. 

You  are  waiting  for  some  father  figure  who  comes  and  takes  hold  of  you,  and  even 
against  you,  takes  you.  Nobody  is  going  to  come.  You  are  waiting  for  Godot.  That 
waiting  can  be  eternal,  and  it  will  be  a  sheer  wastage.  You  have  to  catch  hold  of  your  own 
potentiality,  and  you  will  have  to  start  working  on  it. 

Jesus  has  a  beautiful  saying,  precisely  for  you:  Those  who  have,  more  will  be  given  to 
them.  Those  who  don't  have,  even  that  will  be  taken  away  from  them.  So  if  you  really 
want  to  be  caught  by  some  force  bigger  than  you,  you  will  have  to  earn  it.  It  cannot  just 
happen  as  you  are.  At  least  you  have  to  throw  the  net  into  the  river.  If  you  simply  sit  on 
the  bank,  nothing  is  going  to  happen.  The  river  abounds  in  fish,  but  you  have  to  throw 
your  net.  Then  waiting  will  be  meaningful. 

Yes,  after  throwing  the  net  one  has  to  wait,  but  then  waiting  is  meaningful  because  one 
has  done  something  for  it;  one  has  earned  it.  But  if  you  simply  sit  on  the  bank,  asleep, 
then  your  waiting  is  pointless.  Take  a  jump  into  sannyas  and  wait.  Start  doing 
meditations,  do  a  few  groups  here...  and  have  a  little  courage.  Because  if  you  have,  I  can 
give  you  more.  If  you  don't  have,  nothing  is  possible. 

The  maxim  looks  a  little  absurd  and  anti-communistic,  because  ordinarily  we  think  that 
those  who  don't  have,  they  should  be  given  more;  the  poor  should  be  given  more.  And  the 


saying  says,  'Those  who  are  rich,  they  shall  get  more.  Those  who  are  poor  will  lose  even 
that  which  they  have.'  But  it  is  really  of  a  very  fundamental  nature.  It  is  so. 

If  you  start  singing,  more  and  more  songs  will  be  coming  to  you.  If  you  start  dancing, 
your  body  will  start  melting  into  dance  and  your  body  will  start  growing  wings.  Your 
body  will  become  more  fluid  and  you  will  be  thrilled  with  new  dreams  and  new  dances. 
You  will  become  a  receptor  for  more.  If  you  paint,  more  paintings  will  start  floating  in 
your  mind.  Your  dreams  will  become  more  colourful,  more  psychedelic.  Visions  will 
start  following  you  like  shadows  —  but  the  basic  step  has  to  be  taken  by  you. 

They  have  a  saying  in  Egypt  that  if  you  walk  one  step  towards  God,  He  walks  a  thousand 
and  one  steps  towards  you  —  but  only  when  you  walk  one  step.  If  you  don't  walk  one 
step,  nothing  happens.  So  waiting  is  not  bad,  but  you  have  not  chosen  a  right  time  for  it. 
Waiting  is  beautiful,  but  take  the  first  step.  That  first  step  simply  shows,  'I  am  available.' 
The  first  step  simply  indicates,  'If  something  is  given  to  me,  I  will  appreciate  it.  If 
something  is  transferred  to  me,  I  will  welcome  it.  I  am  ready.  I  will  drink  and  absorb  it.  I 
will  keep  it  in  my  heart  as  a  treasure.'  Your  first  step  is  a  gesture. 

So  if  you  are  really  in  search,  become  a  sannyasin,  because  then  you  will  need  a  life  of 
commitment,  involvement.  Just  standing  by  the  side  of  the  road,  just  being  a  spectator,  is 
not  going  to  help.  You  will  have  to  move  into  the  very  centre  where  the  action  is.  So 
don't  be  a  spectator  —  that  is  something  that  is  happening  to  the  western  mind.  It  is  almost 
like  a  disease  spreading.  [See  Above  All,  Don't  Wobble,  Tuesday  jan.  27th  1976  where 
Osho  talks  further  on  this  .  ] 

To  know  dancing,  you  will  have  to  become  a  dancer,  because  the  knowing  happens  only 
from  withinward.  When  you  participate,  then  you  know. 

So  that  is  happening  in  the  spiritual  world  also.  People  come  from  the  West.  They  go 
from  this  ashram  to  that  ashram,  and  they  watch  what  is  happening.  They  have  forgotten 
how  to  participate.  Hence  my  insistence  for  sannyas.  It  simply  means  don't  be  a  spectator. 
Commit  yourself.  Go  into  it.  Know  it  by  participation  —  and  there  is  no  other  way  to 
know  it. 

So  would  you  like  to  become  a  sannyasin  or  will  you  think  about  it? 

[The  visitor  adds:  One  last  thing  to  clarify.  I  felt  that  to  become  a  sannyasin  I  should 
already  know  that  this  is  it,  that  I  should  feel  some  calling,  feel  something  in  my  guts 
before  I  become  a  sannyasin.  The  way  you  talk  it's  more  like  becoming  a  sannyasin  is  the 
beginning  of  finding  out.] 

It  is  the  beginning...  it  is  the  beginning.  Only  then  can  you  find.  If  you  are  waiting  to  find 
first,  it  will  never  happen. 

This  will  be  your  new  name:  Swami  Anand  Nigama. 

Anand  means  bliss  and  nigama  means  scripture  —  scripture  of  bliss,  a  bible  of  bliss.  That 
has  something  to  do  with  your  future.  You  have  to  make  it  a  point  of  continuous 
remembrance  to  be  blissful.  Don't  ask  for  any  reasons  to  be  blissful...  just  for  no  reason  at 
all.  Make  it  your  very  style  of  life. 

[Osho  said  that  ordinarily  we  think  that  only  if  certain  conditions  are  fulfilled  can  we  be 
happy,  but  bliss,  happiness,  actually  has  nothing  to  do  with  anything  outside  one.] 


Misery  is  a  way  of  life.  Bliss  is  a  way  of  life.  To  be  miserable,  one  has  to  practise  it.  And 
that's  why  people  are  miserable  —  because  they  have  practised  it.  And  there  are  others 
who  are  miserable.... 

A  child  is  born.  He  starts  imitating  and  practising  misery.  Through  imitation  he  learns. 
You  don't  have  many  blissful  people  around  you  so  it  is  very  difficult  to  see.  All  these 
miserable  people  have  one  logic  —  that  something  is  miserable,  and  that's  why  they  are 
miserable.  They  will  become  happy  one  day  —  if  not  in  this  life  then  another,  in  some 
paradise  far  away. 

These  are  the  majority,  the  mass.  They  are  very  weighty.  They  function  like  a  gravitation 
on  every  soul.  By  becoming  a  sannyasin  you  change  your  pattern  of  life  from  misery  to 
bliss.  That  is  the  real  conversion. 

My  insistence  is  that  it  is  just  your  attitude  that  makes  you  miserable  or  happy.  You  can 
see  the  same  thing  with  miserable  eyes  and  it  will  give  you  misery.  You  can  see  the  same 
thing  with  blissful  eyes;  then  it  gives  you  bliss.  The  thing  remains  the  same.  The  life  is 
almost  the  same.  A  Buddha  passes  in  the  same  life,  a  Jesus  passes  in  the  same  life,  but 
they  have  some  other  attitude,  so  their.every  movement  becomes  a  dance,  a  pulsation,  a 
throbbing  of  life. 

So  this  is  the  meaning  of  your  name  —  Anand  Nigama.  It  means  that  now  you  have 
become  a  blissful  scripture.  Everyone  is  —  you  just  have  to  learn  the  new  language  so  that 
you  can  open  your  inner  book  and  can  read  it.  It  contains  tremendous  insights,  it  contains 
great  poetry,  but  one  has  to  learn  the  language. 

The  first  thing  to  remember  is  that  whatsoever  you  are  doing,  bring  the  quality  of 
blissfulness  to  it;  whatsoever  —  small  things.  You  are  polishing  your  shoes  or  washing 
your  clothes.  Why  waste  time?  You  will  have  to  use  the  same  time  in  washing  them 
anyway.  You  can  do  it  in  a  miserable  way  —  why  not  do  it  in  a  blissful  way?  Why  not 
feel  happy?  Why  not  do  it  in  a  prayerful  way?  Why  not  enjoy  it? 

[The  new  sannyasin  said  he  had  done  Primal  therapy  and  Encounter  groups: I  felt  good.  It 
seemed  that  they  opened  me  up  to  a  lot  of  misery  and  made  me  pretty  uptight  for  a 
while.] 

They  can  open  you,  but  go  on  remembering  to  be  blissful  and  then  the  same  opening  will 
open  you  towards  more  bliss.  They  simply  open  —  these  groups  open  you  —  but  if  your 
style  of  life  is  not  blissful,  they  will  open  you  towards  hell.  They  are  simply  an  opening. 
What  you  do  with  that  opening  will  come  from  your  whole  pattern  of  living. 

I  can  give  you  some  plain  paper  but  what  you  write  on  it  will  belong  to  your  mind.  You 
can  write  beautiful  poetry  or  you  can  write  rubbish.  That  plain  paper  is  simply  plain 
paper;  it  contains  nothing.  So  the  same  group  can  open  a  person  towards  very  very  happy 
experiences,  and  the  same  group  can  open  one  to  very  unhappy  experiences.  It  depends. 
The  same  happens  with  drugs  too. 

There  are  people  who  feel  that  the  drug  opens  a  paradise,  and  there  are  people  who  the 
drug  leads  into  a  nightmare,  into  hell. 

The  drug  simply  opens  you  chemically.  What  you  put  in  that  opening  comes  from  you.  It 
has  nothing  to  do  with  the  drug. 


And  the  same  is  done  by  groups  —  of  course  in  a  more  human  way.  The  drug  is  doing 
something  by  changing  your  chemistry.  That  can  be  dangerous  because  you  are  not 
changing,  only  your  chemistry  is  being  played  with.  The  groups  —  Encounter,  Primal, 
Gestalt  —  function  on  a  better  human  level.  They  don't  touch  your  chemistry.  They  try  to 
change  your  mind. 

Meditation  works  on  an  even  higher  level.  It  doesn't  even  touch  your  mind.  It  tries  to 
transform  your  heart. 

But  the  openings  can  be  used  in  a  very  beneficial  way.  Do  a  few  groups  here.  Change  to 
orange  and  the  journey  starts! 

[A  sannyasin  said  he  is  repeating  the  same  'bullshit'  habits  every  day,  like  smoking,  and 
then  adds:  You  say  to  me  to  stop  all  meditations  but  I  come  here  and  do  the  Kundalini 
because  I  love  the  music,  and  when  I  listen  to  the  music  I  cry....  1 

That's  very  good.  Do  one  thing.... 

Habits  like  smoking  cannot  be  dropped  in  this  way  —  the  way  you  are  trying.  They 
become  even  stronger.  The  more  you  fight,  the  more  energy  you  give  to  them,  because  by 
your  very  fight  you  recognize  that  they'  are  powerful.  Again  and  again  you  are  defeated, 
so  again  and  again  you  become  less  and  less  confident.  You  know  beforehand  that  you 
will  be  defeated.  You  are  in  a  self-defeating  game. 

...  Forget  about  it.  When  you  feel  like  smoking,  smoke.  When  you  don't  feel  like 
smoking,  don't.  But  don't  make  it  a  point  that  you  will  smoke  or  will  not.  Don't  make  so 
much  fuss  about  it.  You  are  simply  doing  a  stupid  thing,  not  a  sin.  Taking  smoke  in  and 
throwing  it  out  is  just  stupid,  nothing  else.  So  don't  make  it  so  important.  Don't  be 
obsessed  by  it.  There  are  greater  things  in  life  to  think  about,  to  meditate  upon. 

There  are  millions  of  people  who  don't  smoke  —  so  what?  They  have  not  reached  heaven 
or  anything,  they  have  not  attained  to  nirvana.  Nirvana  is  not  so  cheap.  By  dropping 
beedies  you  cannot  reach  nirvana.  You  are  making  a  mountain  out  of  a  molehill.  Don't 
call  it  bullshit,  because  that  word  is  very  loaded  with  emotion.  You  are  angry  so  you  will 
be  defeated.  You  are  already  afraid  —  that's  why  you  call  it  bullshit.  You  are  fighting  it, 
continuously  condemning  it,  but  the  whole  condemnation  will  come  upon  yourself.  Next 
day  when  you  smoke  you  will  become  bullshit,  because  now  you  are  doing  something 
which  you  condemn,  so  now  you  condemn  yourself.  You  feel  like  an  ugly  thing.  If  self- 
condemnation  enters  you,  it  is  very  difficult  to  achieve  higher  peaks  of  being,  because 
you  are  so  condemnatory  that  you  cannot  even  believe  that  anything  higher  can  happen  to 
you. 

It  has  nothing  to  do  with  religion  and  nothing  to  do  with  any  spirituality.  When  you  don't 
feel  like  it,  good.  Don't  think  then  that  you  are  doing  something  great,  obliging  the  whole 
world  or  something,  or  obliging  God  —  'Look,  I'm  not  smoking.'  Both  ways  it  is 
irrelevant.  That's  what  I  mean  when  I  say  forget  it. 

One  day  suddenly  you  will  see  that  it  is  gone,  because  once  importance  is  then  out  of  it,  it 
starts  dying.  You  are  giving  it  too  much  importance;  you  go  on  feeding  it.  It  is  not  the 
bidi  that  is  clinging  to  you.  It  is  you  who  is  clinging  to  the  bidi.  So  just  relax. 

And  music  is  good.  Enjoy  it.  Move  with  the  music  and  allow  the  vibration  of  it.  Don't 
hold  in  any  way.  Let  your  whole  being  vibrate.  In  fact  the  whole  existence  consists  of 
nothing  but  vibrations  —  millions  of  forms,  but  all  the  forms  consist  of  different  types  of 


vibrations.  Even  physicists  say  that  the  deeper  you  go  into  the  atom,  the  more  you  find 
that  nothing  is  left  but  only  a  pulsating  energy,  vibrations. 

We  are  made  of  vibrations,  so  the  more  you  vibrate,  the  more  alive  you  are.  Hence  music 
is  tremendously  meaningful,  because  it  can  vibrate  you.  It  can  bring  pulsation  to  many 
layers  of  your  being  which  have  become  stale,  stagnant.  It  can  create  ripples  in  your 
innermost  core.  If  you  allow  and  you  are  not  afraid,  those  ripples  will  go  on  deeper  and 
deeper  and  deeper.  They  will  touch  your  very  core,  your  very  centre. 

So  allow  music  to  enter  you.  Just  become  a  receptivity,  an  openness.  Go  all  the  way  and 
don't  hold,  because  holding  will  create  trouble;  your  energy  starts  being  divided.  When 
music  influences  you,  when  you  are  under  its  impact,  then  completely  forget  yourself.  Be 
oblivious  of  yourself.  Just  become  part  of  it,  and  then  you  are  nothing  but  a  vibration. 
Then  the  music  will  start  playing  upon  you  and  you  will  be  just  like  an  instrument. 

It  is  going  to  give  you  the  greatest  meditation  that  is  possible.  No  other  meditation  is 
needed. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I've  never  really  dared  to  let  myself  be  as  happy  as  I  know  I  can  be, 
because  it  hasn't  been  allowed  me  somehow.  The  idea  of  actually  staying  here  is  too 
wonderful  to  believe.  I'm  not  deserving  of  it.] 

You  deserve  it! 

People  have  very  strange  ideas.  These  ideas  have  been  put  into  everybody's  heads. 
Somehow  one  starts  feeling  guilty  if  one  feels  happy  —  as  if  happiness  is  something  one 
should  not  enjoy.  The  whole  world  is  so  miserable  that  being  happy  feels  almost  as  if  it  is 
against  the  world.  People  are  living  in  such  misery  that  the  very  idea  that  you  can  be 
happy  looks  almost  inhuman.  And  we  have  been  trained  not  to  be  happy.  Happiness  has 
always  been  postponed  for  somewhere  else  in  the  future,  in  another  world,  in  heaven  — 
not  here.  Here  is  misery.  Heaven  is  somewhere  else.  And  we  have  been  taught  that 
everybody  has  to  earn  happiness.  That  is  one  of  the  most  foolish  notions  that  can  happen 
-  and  it  has  happened. 

There  is  a  reason  why  it  has  happened.  Children  are  naturally  happy  and  parents  cannot 
allow  it  —  their  natural  happiness  —  because  they  have  only  one  way  to  teach  them,  and 
that  is  by  reward  and  punishment.  If  they  are  already  happy,  you  cannot  reward  them.  If 
they  are  already  happy,  the  whole  system  of  reward  collapses.  So  you  have  to  make  them 
unhappy  and  you  have  to  force  them  to  earn  their  happiness.  If  they  behave,  if  they  are 
good,  then  you  can  allow  them  to  be  happy.  If  they  don't  behave  well,  if  they  don't  follow 
you,  you  force  them  to  be  unhappy.  You  punish  them.  That  is  the  only  trick  that  humanity 
has  come  to  know,  to  condition. 

So  from  the  very  first  day  to  the  very  last,  we  go  on  being  rewarded  and  punished  by 
parents,  by  society,  by  the  state,  by  this  and  that,  but  everywhere  we  are  being  pulled  and 
pushed  between  reward  and  punishment.  Then  naturally  the  idea  arises  that  one  has  to 
earn  happiness.  Unearned  happiness  creates  guilt  —  and  my  whole  approach  is  that 
happiness  cannot  be  earned.  You  can  be  just  happy  or  not  —  it  is  your  choice,  take  it  or 
not  —  but  there  is  no  question  of  earning  it. 

Happiness  is  natural.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  what  you  do,  but  the  parents  cannot  allow 
it.  The  priests  cannot  allow  it  because  the  whole  kingdom  of  the  priests  exists  on  this  — 


that  if  you  are  good  and  moral  and  righteous,  you  will  be  happy  in  heaven,  otherwise  you 
will  be  thrown  into  hell. 

I  am  saying  that  there  exists  no  hell  —  only  heaven  exists.  And  wherever  you  are,  you  can 
be  in  heaven,  because  being  is  heavenly.  Just  to  be  is  to  be  happy.  These  are  synonymous. 
As  we  need  not  earn  our  breathing,  as  we  have  not  earned  our  being,  we  need  not  earn 
our  happiness.  Once  this  false  notion  of  earned  drops,  you  will  feel  such  joy  arising  in 
you. 

Of  course  in  the  beginning  you  will  feel  very  guilty  because  what  are  you  doing?  —  You 
have  not  earned  it.  You  are  not  worthy  of  it.  Your  parents  will  go  on  saying  inside,  deep 
in  your  mind,  'Have  you  earned  it  or  not?  Are  you  worthy  of  it  or  not?'  I  am  saying  that 
everybody  —  just  by  being  here  —  is  worthy. 

I  give  you  happiness  not  as  an  award.  I  simply  make  you  alert  that  you  are  happy.  All  the 
time  while  you  were  thinking  that  you  were  not  happy,  you  have  been  happy.  It  was  just  a 
nightmare  of  being  miserable.  Deep  down  the  current  has  always  remained  happy. 

So  I  can  understand  your  constant  search  for  being  worthy.  One. then  feels  'Okay,  I  have 
earned  it.  So  it  belongs  to  me.'  But  happiness  is  you. 

[She  answers:  I  supposed  it  always  seemed  as  if  there  were  a  quantity  of  happiness  in  life 
—  that  there  was  a  limited  amount,  and  if  I  had  more....  ] 

That  too  is  there.  But  it  is  just  like  air.  There  is  a  certain  amount  of  air.  You  breathe  in  but 
you  cannot  keep  it  in;  you  have  to  breathe  it  out.  The  same  breath  that  was  your  breath  a 
moment  before  is  my  breath  now.  Happiness  is  certainly  like  an  atmosphere.  You  breathe 
in  and  you  breathe  out.  You  cannot  keep  it  in;  nobody  can  keep  happiness  in. 

So  nobody  is  taking  it  away  from  anybody  else,  because  it  is  continuously  moving. 
Nobody  can  be  miserly  about  happiness.  That  is  something  to  be  understood.  You  can  be 
miserly  about  misery,  but  you  cannot  be  miserly  about  happiness.  Happiness  tends  to 
express  itself.  It  goes  on  exhaling.  It  goes  on  merging  with  the  atmosphere  again  and 
again.  So  nobody  possesses  it  really.  It  is  Like  breathing.  But  that  too  has  been  put  in  the 
mind  —  that  there  is  a  certain  amount  of  happiness  in  the  world  so  you  can  only  take  this 
much.  If  you  take  more  of  it,  others  will  suffer.  This  is  foolish,  but  the  idea  has  grown  so 
deep  that  even  parallel  ideas  exist. 

Gurdjieff  used  to  say  that  knowledge  exists  only  in  a  certain  amount.  He  was  joking,  but 
there  are  foolish  people  who  believed  that  too,  because  they  have  always  believed  that 
happiness  exists  in  a  certain  amount.  Now  to  think  that  knowledge  exists  in  a  certain 
amount  is  parallel  logic.  Gurdjieff  used  also  to  say  that  only  a  certain  amount  of  people 
can  become  wise  in  a  certain  time.  All  people  cannot  become  wise  because  only  a  certain 
amount  of  wisdom  exists. 

When  a  Buddha  is  there,  many  people  cannot  become  Buddhas,  because  he  holds  all  the 
amount,  so  you  can  only  have  a  certain  amount.  People  thought  that  Gurdjieff  was  talking 
sense.  He  was  simply  joking,  he  was  playing  tricks;  he  was  deceiving.  He  was  just 
looking  at  their  absurd  minds  —  that  they  can  believe  in  this  also!  There  are  now 
Gurdjieff  followers  who  go  on  propounding  the  theory  that  knowledge  exists  in  a  certain 
amount  so  only  a  chosen  few  can  have  it.  Only  people  who  work  hard  and  earn  it,  who 
become  worthy,  can  have  it.  This  is  not  so. 


Neither  knowledge  nor  happiness  exists  in  any  amount.  This  whole  existence  consists  of 
intelligence,  consists  of  happiness.  We  only  have  to  know  how  to  vibrate  with  this  whole 
existence.  If  we  can  dance  with  this  whole  existence,  then  suddenly  all  that  is  there 
becomes  available  to  us.  It  is  only  a  question  of  right  tuning.  In  tune,  you  are  an  emperor. 
Out  of  tune,  you  are  a  beggar.  It  is  not  a  question  of  amount,  not  of  quantity,  not  even  of 
worthiness.  It  is  just  a  question  of  getting  in  tune...  Learning  how  to  fall  into  accord,  how 
to  be  in  harmony. 

The  day  is  dancing  with  the  night.  There  is  an  accord.  They  are  polar  opposites  but  they 
balance.  Life  is  dancing  with  death.  There  is  an  accord.  And  if  you  can  also  start  feeling  a 
balance  between  the  opposites,  the  positive  and  the  negative,  summer  and  winter,  good 
and  bad,  then  you  are  falling  in  tune.  Then  in  a  deeper  way  within  you  life  dances  with 
death,  Eros  with  Thanatos.  And  when  Eros  dances  with  Thanatos,  you  become  a  cosmos. 
A  subtle  order  arises  in  you.  Then  there  is  no  conflict  within  you.  That  state  of  no  conflict 
is  happiness. 

And  one  thing  more.  By  being  happy,  you  increase  the  amount  of  happiness  in  the  world, 
because  when  one  person  falls  in  tune,  he  creates  subtle  vibrations  around  him,  and 
whomsoever  comes  in  contact  with  those  vibrations  also  starts  falling  in  tune  They  are 
infectious.  So  if  you  are  really  happy,  it  is  just  the  opposite  to  feeling  guilty.  In  fact  you 
have  become  a  great  servant  to  humanity,  to  life  at  large.  Just  by  becoming  happy,  a 
person  becomes  helpful,  tremendously  helpful,  beneficial,  because  whomsoever  will 
come  under  his  influence,  in  his  territory,  will  be  affected. 

That's  what  I  am  doing  here.  My  whole  effort  is  to  help  you  throb  with  me,  to  be  in  a 
subtle  love  with  me  so  you  can  become  flooded.  Once  it  happens  in  you,  you  have  a 
vision  of  your  own.  Then  you  can  go  on  your  own.  You  know  how  to  fall  in  line  with 
existence. 

That's  what  Buddha  called  this  morning's  sutra  —  one  who  is  in  accord  is  great.  But  to  be 
in  accord  is  happiness. 

[Osho  said  that  with  money  and  political  power,  the  more  you  have,  the  less  is  available 
for  others,  but  that  this  is  not  so  with  happiness. 1 

That  is  the  difference  between  worldly  riches  and  other-worldly  riches.  In  the  worldly 
riches  you  have  to  grab  and  rob  others.  You  have  to  exploit  others.  In  other-worldly 
riches,  by  becoming  rich,  you  make  everybody  rich.  The  whole  economics  is  totally 
different.  By  becoming  beautiful,  you  make  everybody  beautiful.  By  becoming  wise,  you 
make  everybody  wise.  When  one  person  becomes  happy,  the  whole  world  is  benefited, 
the  whole  world  is  blessed. 

[A  sannyasin  who  is  leaving  says:  I  had  so  much  happiness  here,  but  I  also  know  that  I 
have  a  lot  of  blackness  in  me.  I'm  very  frightened  that  I  won't...  that  I  will  lose  you.] 

No,  no,  you  cannot  lose  me.  There  is  no  way.  If  you  have  me,  you  have  me  forever!  If 
you  don't  have  me,  that's  another  thing. 

You  are  not  going  to  lose  me.  The  contact  has  happened.  It  will  be  growing  more  and 
more. 

...  When  you  start  feeling  too  starved  of  me  and  too  much  appetite  arises,  come  back! 


[A  participant  of  the  Enlightenment  group  said:  I  kept  struggling  with  the  fact  that  I'm  too 
hard  on  myself.  I'm  not  happy  most  of  the  time.  I  put  myself  down.] 

Nothing  to  be  worried  about.  Why  be  afraid?  If  you  can  be  happy  today,  you  can  be 
happy  tomorrow.  You  can  be  more  happy  tomorrow  because  tomorrow  will  be  coming 
out  of  today.  It  will  be  growing  out  of  this  moment. 

Never  be  afraid  of  the  future,  because  the  future  is  not  coming  out  of  the  blue.  It  is 
growing  right  now.  It  is  growing  in  the  womb  of  the  present.  If  you  are  happy,  tomorrow 
is  going  to  be  more  happy.  One  can  be  absolutely  certain  about  that. 

Just  be  happy  today,  and  I  will  take  care  of  your  tomorrow. 

[Another  group  member  said:  I  feel  energized  by  the  group.  I  also  feel  a  little  bit  afraid  of 
all  the  energy. 

When  I  was  in  the  group,  before  it  ended  I  was  thinking,  'I  must  be  careful  not  to 
dissipate  the  energy.' 

When  I  came  out  of  the  group  I  was  so  frightened  by  the  energy  that  I  dissipated  it  as  fast 
as  I  could,  because  I  couldn't  hold  onto  it.] 

Yes,  it  is  still  there.  There  is  nothing  to  be  worried  about.  The  thing  to  do  is,  if  you  feel 
too  worried  that  it  should  be  dissipated,  you  will  throw  it  through  the  very  worry.  When 
you  feel  too  much  energy,  deliberately  throw  it.  Let  it  become  a  dance.  Go  on  throwing  it, 
go  on  giving  it  to  people.  Shake  hands  and  give  it  to  them.  Hold  them  and  give  it  to  them. 
Just  make  it  a  gift  and  you  will  feel  very  centred  and  settled.  This  is  how  it  will  work  for 
you.  If  you  try  to  hold  it,  you  will  lose  it.  In  the  very  fear  of  losing  it,  you  will  lose  it. 

[Osho  said  that  this  was  the  law  of  reverse  effect  —  that  whatsoever  you  want  to  do,  the 
opposite  happens,  and  that  energy  is  like  a  well  from  which  you  need  to  continuously 
draw  if  the  well  is  to  function.  (See  Hammer  On  The  Rock,  Jan.  3,  1976,  where  Osho 
talks  at  length  about  this.)] 

Sing  and  dance  and  celebrate.  Go  and  give  to  people.  Let  them  also  have  a  little 
experience  of  what  energy  is,  and  you  will  never  be  at  a  loss. 

Give,  and  more  will  be  given  to  you. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #14 
Chapter  title:  None 

3  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609035 
ShortTitle:  PASSI014 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 


[A  visitor  says:  I  don't  know  whether  I  want  to  take  sannyas  or  not.  I'm  troubled  about  the 
concept  of  surrender,  because  I  feel  for  a  long  time  that  I've  surrendered  to  a  lot  of 
people,  and  only  recently  I've  begun  to  feel  centred.] 

You  must  have  a  wrong  notion  about  surrender,  because  whatsoever  you  have  been 
calling  surrender  was  not  surrender.  If  it  were  surrender  you  would  have  grown 
tremendously.  It  was  not  surrender.  You  may  have  forced  yourself  into  a  certain 
obedience.  You  may  have  become  dependent  on  people,  you  may  have  been  imitating 
people,  you  may  have  been  waiting  for  somebody  to  order  you  to  do  certain  things,  you 
may  have  been  in  a  sort  of  a  bondage,  but  not  surrender.  After  bondage,  one  feels  very 
centred  if  one  becomes  free.  But  if  you  know  surrender,  surrender  is  freedom. 

Once  somebody  has  known  what  surrender  is,  there  is  no  way  to  go  out,  because 
surrender  never  takes  anything  from  you  —  it  simply  gives  you  something.  It  does  not 
make  you  dependent  —  it  makes  you  independent.  It  does  not  take  away  your  freedom,  it 
does  not  force  you  to  become  somebody  else.  It  simply  helps  you  to  be  yourself.  You 
must  have  a  wrong  notion,  but  that  notion  is  prevalent. 

Surrender,  to  you,  may  mean  something  like  imprisonment  —  as  if  you  are  defeated  by 
somebody;  as  if  somebody  has  possessed  you,  overpowered  you,  dominated  you.  In  the 
West  particularly,  surrender  has  only  one  meaning,  and  that  is  the  meaning  defined  by  the 
army.  When  one  country  surrenders  to  another,  when  one  army  surrenders  to  another  — 
that  is  the  only  meaning  that  the  West  knows. 

But  here  in  the  East  we  have  a  totally  different  notion  about  it.  It  is  not  that  somebody 
starts  dominating  you.  It  is  simply  that  you  start  trusting  somebody.  It  is  simply  that  you 
are  in  love  with  somebody  and  you  would  like  to  move  with  them.  And  love  never 
destroys  freedom.  In  fact  without  love,  you  cannot  have  freedom.  Only  love  can  give  you 
wings  to  be  free.  Only  love  can  give  you  the  courage  to  be  free. 

You  may  be  feeling  a  sort  of  centring  because  you  dropped  out  of  your  so-called 
surrenders,  but  what  I  am  trying  to  give  you  is  totally  different.  By  becoming  a  sannyasin, 
you  are  not  becoming  a  slave.  You  are  simply  giving  a  hint  that  you  are  ready  to  learn, 
that  you  are  ready  to  receive.  It  is  just  a  gesture  of  sensitivity,  of  receptivity,  of 
vulnerability;  a  gesture  of  your  being  open,  that's  all. 

So  if  you  feel,  you  can  take  the  jump.  But  if  you  feel  afraid,  wait.  It  should  come  from 
you. 

Prem  means  love  and  yuthika  means  a  jasmine  flower;  a  jasmine  flower  of  love.  It  is  one 
of  the  most  beautiful  names.... 

[A  sannyasin  said  that  she  had  been  doing  pottery  in  Germany  but  did  not  care  for  it  very 
much.  Osho  said  something  must  be  wrong  about  her  attitude  because  pottery  is  beautiful 
work ....  ] 

.  .  .  it  is  very  meditative  work  and  can  help  centring.  You  may  not  have  looked  at  it  that 
way,  but  anything  to  do  with  hands  is  good.  Anything  like  pottery  can  become  an  inner 
source  of  centring,  outside  you  go  on  centring  the  pot,  shaping  the  pot,  and  inside  you  go 
on  centring  with  It.  It  depends....  You  may  not  have  understood  it.  Just  be  here  and 
meditate  and  I  will  make  you  a  real  potter. 


It  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  things  a  man  can  do.  Farming,  pottery,  are  very  basic.  In 
India  we  conceive  of  God  as  a  potter.  In  all  the  indian  scriptures,  they  say  that  the  world 
is  like  a  pot  and  God  is  the  potter.  You  must  have  heard  the  word  'brahma'.  Brahma 
means  the  potter,  the  creator  of  the  world. 

It  is  a  meditative  process,  but  one  has  to  understand  it,  otherwise  it  can  be  boring;  one 
may  not  enjoy  it.  Unless  one  understands  what  it  is  exactly,  it  can  become  just  ordinary 
work.  It  can  be  transformed  into  almost  a  ritual.  You  can  move  into  prayer  and 
meditation  through  it. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  Whenever  I  get  close  to  anybody,  I  get  a  horrible  tension  in  my  legs, 
in  the  thighs.  It  happens  whenever  I  want  to  be  near  somebody  —  just  the  upper  part 
becomes  full  of  tension.! 

Do  one  thing.  Every  night  before  you  go  to  sleep,  stand  in  the  middle  of  the  room  — 
exactly  in  the  middle  —  and  make  your  body  as  stiff  and  as  tense  as  possible  —  almost  as 
if  you  will  burst.  Do  this  for  two  minutes  and  then  relax  for  two  minutes,  standing  up.  Do 
this  —  tensing  and  relaxing  two  or  three  times  and  then  just  go  to  sleep. 

It  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  thighs,  really.  It  has  something  to  do  with  the  brain,  the 
mind.  Whenever  you  come  close,  you  become  afraid  of  really  being  close  to  somebody. 
Maybe  your  past  experiences  bring  the  tension.  But  it  has  to  do  with  the  mind,  and  the 
part  that  has  to  do  with  the  thighs  is  getting  affected.  So  the  whole  thing  has  to  be  made 
as  tense  as  possible.  After  it,  don't  do  anything  else,  so  the  whole  night  that  relaxation 
goes  deeper  and  deeper  in  you. 

One  meditation  that  I  would  like  you  to  follow  ....  The  first  step:  just  relax  in  a  chair, 
make  the  whole  body  comfortable.  The  second  step,  close  the  eyes.  The  third  step,  relax 
the  breathing.  Make  it  as  natural  as  possible.  With  each  breath  going  out,  say  'One'.  As 
the  breath  goes  out,  say  'One';  breathe  in  and  don't  say  anything.  Breathe  out  and  say 
'One';  breathe  in  and  don't  say  anything.  So  with  each  outgoing  breath  you  simply  say 
'One...  one...  one'.  And  not  only  say  it  but  also  feel  that  the  whole  existence  is  one,  it  is  a 
unity.  Don't  repeat  that...  just  have  that  feeling  —  and  saying  'One'  will  help.  Do  this  for 
twenty  minutes  every  day. 

Make  it  a  point  that  nobody  disturbs  you  while  you  are  doing  it.  You  can  open  your  eyes 
and  look  at  the  clock  but  don't  put  any  alarm  on.  Anything  that  can  give  you  a  jerk  will  be 
bad,  so  don't  keep  the  phone  in  the  room  where  you  are  doing  it,  and  nobody  should 
knock.  For  those  twenty  minutes  you  have  to  be  absolutely  relaxed.  If  there  is  too  much 
noise  around,  use  earplugs. 

Saying  'One'  with  each  exhalation  will  make  you  so  calm  and  quiet  and  collected;  you 
cannot  imagine.  Do  this  in  the  daytime,  never  at  night,  otherwise  your  sleep  will  be 
disturbed,  because,  this  will  be  so  relaxing  that  you  will  not  feel  sleepy.  You  will  feel 
fresh.  The  best  time  is  the  morning,  otherwise  the  afternoon,  but  never  at  night  time. 

So  these  two  things  you  continue.  There  is  nothing  to  be  worried  about. 

[To  a  sannyasin,  who  had  received  word  that  his  former  wife,  had  died,  after  a  sudden 
illness  while  in  Germany.! 


...so  [she]  has  left?  Very  good.  She  left  in  a  good  state.  She  was  not  fighting  at  all.  She 
accepted  and  surrendered  —  and  the  greatest  surrender  is  the  surrender  to  death.  So  she 
has  died  as  a  srotapanna.  Don't  be  worried  about  it.  She  has  entered  the  stream. 

[Osho  has  been  talking  on  Buddha  recently  in  the  morning  discourses.  Buddha  describes 
the  various  stages  of  a  man's  consciousness,  beginning  with  the  worldly  man  and  then  the 
religious  man.  The  third  stage  is  of  the  srotapanna  —  the  man  who  has  left  the  bank,  his 
security,  and  taken  the  plunge  into  the  river  that  moves  towards  the  ocean.] 

But  one  thing  —  meditate,  because  this  moment  will  be  of  significance  for  you.  Whenever 
somebody  dies,  somebody  you  have  been  deeply  related  to,  someone  with  whom  you 
have  been  very  intimate,  somebody  with  whom  you  have  been  happy  and  unhappy,  sad 
and  angry,  somebody  with  whom  you  have  known  all  the  seasons  of  life  and  somebody 
who  has  somehow  become  a  part  of  you  and  you  have  become  a  part  of  him  or  her  — 
when  somebody  like  that  dies,  it  is  not  only  a  death  that  occurs  outside,  it  is  a  death  that 
occurs  inside  also.  [She]  was  holding  a  part  of  your  being,  so  when  she  dies,  that  part  in 
your  being  also  dies.  She  was  fulfilling  something  in  you.  She  disappears  and  wounds  are 
left. 

We  have  many  holes  in  our  being.  Because  of  those  holes  we  seek  the  company  of  the 
other,  the  love  of  the  other.  By  the  other's  presence  we  somehow  manage  to  fill  those 
holes.  When  the  other  disappears,  those  holes  are  again  there  —  yawning  abysses  opening. 
You  may  have  forgotten  about  them,  but  you  will  feel  them  and  the  pain.  So  use  these 
moments  for  a  deep  meditation  because  sooner  or  later  those  holes  will  be  filled  again. 
These  holes  will  again  disappear.  Before  it  happens  it  is  good  to  enter  those  holes,  to 
enter  that  emptiness  that  [she]  will  leave  behind  her. 

So  use  these  moments.  Sit  silently,  close  your  eyes,  go  inside.  And  just  see  what  has 
happened.  Don't  think  about  the  future,  don't  think  about  the  past.  Don't  go  into  the 
memories  because  that  is  futile.  Just  go  in.  What  has  happened  to  you?  [She]  is  dead  — 
now  what  has  happened  to  you?  What  is  happening  to  you?  Just  go  into  that  process.  That 
will  reveal  many  things  in  you.  You  will  be  completely  transformed  if  you  can  penetrate 
those  holes.  You  will  not  try  to  fill  them  again,  but  still  you  can  love. 

One  can  love  without  in  any  way  taking  the  other  inside  and  fulfilling  some  deep  need 
there.  One  can  love  as  a  luxury  —  because  one  has  to  share  and  one  wants  to  share.  Then 
love  is  no  more  a  need.  You  are  not  hiding  your  wounds  behind  it. 

So  go  into  these  wounds,  go  into  this  emptiness,  go  into  this  absence,  and  watch  —  that's 
one  thing.  The  second  thing:  remember  that  life  is  really  fleeting,  slipping  by...  so 
momentary.  We  live  in  a  magic  world.  We  go  on  deluding  ourselves.  Again  and  again  the 
delusion  drops.  Again  and  again  reality  erupts.  Again  and  again  somebody  dies  and  you 
are  reminded  that  life  is  not  reliable,  that  one  should  not  depend  too  much  on  life.  One 
moment  it  is  there,  another  moment  it  is  gone.  It  is  a  soap  bubble  —  just  a  small  prick  and 
it  is  gone.  In  fact  the  more  you  understand  life,  the  more  full  of  wonder  you  are  about 
how  it  exists.  Then  death  is  not  the  problem;  life  becomes  the  problem.  Death  seems 
natural. 

It  is  a  miracle  that  life  exists  —  such  a  temporary  thing,  such  a  momentary  thing.  And  not 
only  does  it  exist  —  people  trust  it.  People  depend  on  it,  people  rely  on  it.  They  put  their 
whole  being  at  its  feet  —  and  it  is  just  an  illusion,  a  dream.  Any  moment  it  is  gone  and 


one  is  left  crying.  With  it  is  gone  the  whole  effort,  the  whole  sacrifice  that  you  had  made 
for  it.  Suddenly  everything  disappears.  So  watch  this...  this  momentary,  dream-like 
illusory  life. 

And  death  is  coming  to  everybody.  We  are  all  standing  in  the  queue,  and  the  queue  is 
continuously  coming  closer  to  death.  [She]  disappears;  the  queue  is  a  little  less.  She  had 
made  space  for  one  person  more.  Every  person  dying  brings  you  closer  to  your  own 
death,  so  every  death  is  basically  your  death.  In  every  death  one  is  dying  and  coming 
closer  to  the  full  stop.  Before  it  happens,  one  has  to  become  as  much  aware  as  possible. 

If  we  trust  life  too  much,  we  tend  to  become  unconscious.  If  we  start  doubting  life  —  this 
so-called  life  which  always  ends  in  death  —  then  we  become  more  aware.  And  in  that 
awareness,  a  new  sort  of  life  starts;  its  doors  open.  The  life  which  is  deathless,  the  life 
which  is  eternal,  the  life  which  is  beyond  time. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #15 
Chapter  title:  None 

4  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609045 
ShortTitle:  PASSI015 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

Deva  means  divine  and  shubha  means  goodness  —  divine  goodness.  Human  beings  are 
good,  but  their  goodness  is  also  part  of  their  policy.  They  say  that  honesty  is  the  best 
policy.  Even  through  goodness  they  want  to  earn  something.  It  is  a  bargain.  To  be  good  is 
beneficial,  hence  they  are  good.  Their  goodness  is  not  unconditional;  it  is  conditional. 
They  want  you  to  be  good  to  them,  that's  why  they  are  good  to  you.  When  I  call  it  divine 
goodness,  it  means  unconditional. 

And  let  this  become  your  very  style  of  life.  Be  unconditionally  good  —  not  that  because 
some  person  is  good  to  you,  you  have  to  be  good.  Even  if  some  person  is  bad  towards 
you,  you  have  to  be  good.  That's  the  meaning  when  Jesus  says  to  love  your  enemy.  It  is 
very  simple  to  love  your  friend;  everybody  loves  their  friend.  That  love  cannot  take  you 
very  far.  When  one  starts  loving  the  enemy  also,  one  has  wings.  One  can  fly  to  the 
uttermost,  to  the  ultimate. 

So  just  be  good,  and  don't  bother  whether  people  are  good  to  you  or  not.  Make  it  your 
nature  that  you  cannot  be  otherwise,  and  by  and  by  you  will  start  enjoying  it 
tremendously.  A  good  which  is  conditional  is  very  poor;  it  has  no  richness  in  it.  When 
you  are  simply  good  —  even  to  those  who  are  not  good  to  you,  even  to  those  who  are 
antagonistic,  even  to  those  who  are  indifferent  to  you  —  then  you  start  feeling  so  rich,  so 
fulfilled,  that  flowers  start  blooming. 

[A  visitor  says:  I  don't  really  understand  what  you're  doing  here  with  sannyas.  I  don't 
really  know  what  it  means.  It  seems  a  little  bit  meaningless  to  me.] 


It  is  meaningless.  But  not  in  the  sense  that  you  understand  it,  but  in  the  sense  that  life  is 
meaningless,  in  the  sense  that  flowers  are  meaningless,  in  the  sense  that  stars  are 
meaningless. 

What  is  the  meaning  of  the  flower?  There  is  no  explanation.  And  what  is  the  meaning  of 
a  star?  There  is  no  explanation.  What  is  the  meaning  of  love?  If  you  love  a  person,  can 
you  say  what  the  meaning  of  the  love  is?  Or  will  you  wait  for  the  meaning  to  be  revealed 
to  you,  then  you  will  fall  in  love?  Will  you  say  that  first  you  have  to  decide  the  meaning, 
then  you  will  love? 

It  is  just  falling  in  love  with  me.  It  is  meaningless.  It  is  a  love  affair.  If  you  can  enjoy  it,  it 
is  beautiful.  Meaning  there  is  none.  The  very  desire  towards  meaning  is  meaningless, 
because  life  is  not  going  towards  any  end.  It  is  simply  there  without  any  explanation, 
without  any  reason,  without  any  why.  It's  simply  there. 

Do  you  know  the  meaning  of  your  life?  —  but  you  are  here  and  alive,  and  you  want  to  be 
alive.  If  somebody  says,  'If  you  don't  know  the  meaning  of  life,  why  don't  you  commit 
suicide?'  you  would  like  to  say,  'I  would  still  like  to  live.  Meaning  there  is  none,  but  I 
love  to  be  alive.'  It  is  meaningless. 

In  fact  the  whole  of  life  is  more  like  a  flower  than  like  a  logical  proposition.  It  is  not  a 
syllogism.  It  is  not  a  scientific  hypothesis.  It  is  just  poetic  overflowing. 

So  sannyas  is  meaningless.  It  is  only  for  those  people  who  are  ready  to  move  into  the 
dimension  of  the  meaningless,  the  absurd,  the  paradoxical.  Yes,  it  cannot  be  given  and 
yet  I  give  it  to  you.  And  yes,  you  cannot  take  it  and  yet  you  can  take  it.  That  is  a 
paradoxical  thing.  But  by  and  by  if  you  enter  into  it,  you  will  start  delighting  in  it. 
Meaning  there  will  be  none,  but  there  will  be  much  dance  and  much  celebration.  I  can 
promise  there  will  be  much  joy  —  meaning  there  will  be  none. 

So  if  you  have  the  courage  to  move  in  a  meaningless  gesture,  close  your  eyes! 

...If  something  happens  in  your  body,  allow  it,  and  don't  think  about  meaning.  Let  it 
happen.  In  this  moment  with  me,  be  completely  meaningless.  Just  feel  me  as  if  I  am 
surrounding  you  like  a  warm  bath,  and  you  are  just  relaxing  in  it.... 

Good!  Come  here.  [Osho  places  the  mala  over  her  head]  Just  feel  my  energy.  You  are 
ready  for  a  meaningless  journey. 

Never  ask  about  meaning.  Ask  for  joy,  ask  for  delight.  Asking  for  meaning  is  asking  a 
wrong  question.  You  will  miss  much.  There  are  many  people  who,  seeing  a  full  moon, 
will  ask,  'What  is  the  meaning  of  it?'  Once  when  Picasso  was  painting,  a  friend  asked 
him,  'What  is  the  meaning  of  it?' 

Picasso  said,  'I  am  simply  puzzled.  Nobody  goes  to  the  waterfall  and  asks,  "What  is  the 
meaning  of  your  noise?"  Nobody  goes  to  the  rosebush  and  asks,  "What  is  the  meaning  of 
your  flowering?"  Nobody  goes  to  the  ocean  and  asks  the  wild  waves  roaring  and  crashing 
against  the  shore.  Why  do  only  I  have  to  answer  it?  Can't  I  just  paint?  Can't  I  be  allowed 
the  same  freedom  that  is  allowed  a  rosebush,  the  ocean,  the  river?' 

Have  that  freedom.  Meaning  is  a  confinement.  It  is  the  greatest  bondage.  Once  you  start 
looking  for  meaning,  you  will  start  missing  life,  because  everywhere  the  question  will 
arise,  'What  is  the  meaning  of  it?' 

All  that  is  beautiful  is  meaningless.  All  that  is  great  is  meaningless  because  it  comes  from 
the  beyond.  All  that  is  true  is  meaningless.  You  can  only  find  meaning  in  human 
productions.  A  car  is  meaningful,  a  flower  not,  because  the  car  has  been  made  for  a 


certain  purpose.  A  train  is  meaningful,  but  a  cloud  is  not.  Only  human  manufactured 
goods  are  meaningful;  only  economics  has  meaning.  Life  has  none. 

So  if  you  start  looking  for  meaning  you  will  be  searching  in  a  wrong  way,  and  by  and  by 
you  will  lose  all  that  is  significant.  I  don't  say  it  is  meaningful  —  significant.  A  thing  can 
be  significant  without  having  meaning.  Now  this  mala  I  have  given  to  you  will  have  a 
significance,  but  no  meaning.  Meaning  is  something  which  is  objective.  Significance  is 
something  which  is  subjective. 

A  lover  gives  you  a  small  handkerchief;  it  has  significance  —  no  meaning.  If  you  go  into 
the  market  they  will  say  you  can  only  get  four  annas  for  it.  But  you  will  not  want  to  sell  it 
at  any  price.  It  has  a  significance.  That  significance  exists  only  for  you;  it  is  not  in  the 
handkerchief.  It  is  in  the  love  gesture.  It  is  a  gift  from  a  loving  heart.  To  sell  it  —  even  to 
think  of  selling  it  —  is  impossible,  would  be  a  betrayal.  You  would  like  to  die  with  the 
handkerchief  on  your  heart.  You  could  lose  everything,  but  you  would  like  to  save  this 
handkerchief  —  sometimes  even  at  the  cost  of  life  —  because  love  is  higher  than  life.  But 
it  only  has  significance. 

Meaning  is  economical.  Significance  is  poetic.  Things  have  meaning.  Persons  don't  have 
meanings.  And  if  a  world  is  simply  of  meanings,  it  will  be  a  dead  world.  It  will  be  the 
most  dead  world  that  one  can  imagine.  We  are  still  a  little  happy  because  significance  is 
Still  not  completely  gone.  Even  people  who  live  continuously  in  a  logical  world,  in  a 
logical  framework,  they  also  have  some  moments  of  significance. 

You  hold  the  hand  of  your  beloved....  What  is  the  meaning  of  it?  Significance  is 
tremendous,  but  you  cannot  prove  it  to  anybody.  They  will  say,  'You  are  just  holding 
hands.  What  is  the  point  of  it?  —  just  two  skins  touching  each  other.  It  is  so  hot  and  you 
are  perspiring.  What  is  the  point  of  it?'  But  when  you  love  a  person,  you  know  that  there 
is  something  else  which  is  ineffable,  illusive,  mysterious.  It  is  not  only  hands  touching 
each  other.  It  is  souls  touching  each  other.  Hands  are  just  the  vehicles  of  something 
invisible  passing  through,  being  transferred. 

Sannyas  will  have  tremendous  significance  —  and  it  will  have  more  significance  the 
deeper  you  go  into  it.  But  you  are  ready.  This  will  be  your  name  for  this  journey  of 
meaningless  significance:  Ma  Anand  Samagra. 

Anand  means  bliss  and  samagra  means  whole.  In  being  whole  is  bliss,  in  being  total  is 
bliss.  In  being  fragmented  is  misery,  in  being  divided  is  hell.  So  become  more  and  more 
one,  integrated,  whole  —  and  sannyas  will  help  you. 

At  least  now  one  thing  will  exist  in  you  which  is  beyond  you.  This  moment  something 
has  entered  in  you  which  you  cannot  comprehend.  You  cannot  figure  out  what  it  is.  You 
are  dumb  before  it.  You  will  not  be  able  to  argue  about  it.  If  somebody  asks  you  why  you 
have  taken  sannyas,  you  will  not  have  any  way  to  argue.  You  can  laugh.  You  can  say 
something,  but  that  won't  make  sense  logically,  rationally.  You  will  not  even  be  able  to 
say  to  yourself  why  you  have  taken  sannyas. 

So  something  now  a  little  higher  than  you  will  exist  there.  Try  to  reach  it.  It  will  be  like  a 
horizon  —  the  more  you  try  to  reach  it,  the  further  back  it  will  recede.  But  by  trying  to 
reach  it  you  will  be,  growing.  This  is  how  one  surpasses  oneself. 

One  has  always  to  strive  for  something  bigger  than  oneself,  bigger  than  all  that  you  can 
figure  out,  higher  than  your  mind,  greater  than  your  knowledge...  something  which  you 
feel  that  you  know  and  yet  you  cannot  reduce  it  to  knowledge,  you  cannot  reduce  it  to 
words,  to  theories,  dogmas. 


So  I  send  you  on  this  journey  of  meaningless.  Enjoy  it,  and  more  and  more  significance 
will  come  out  of  it.  It  will  transform  you... 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  feel  I  can  teach  Hatha  Yoga  in  a  different  way  —  a  surren-dering 
way,  a  way  of  accepting  your  body  and  surrendering  to  what  is.  I  feel  that  you’re  against 
Hatha  Yoga,  so  I  don't  know  whether  I  should  drop  it  or  not.l 

No,  I  am  not  really  against  Hatha  Yoga.  If  you  can  teach  in  a  surrendering  way,  then 
there  is  nothing  wrong  in  it.  I  am  against  any  violent,  aggressive  methodology.  So  if  you 
can  develop  this  quality  —  like  Aikido  or  T'ai  Chi  —  that  you  go  with  the  body  energy 
rather  than  forcing  it,  rather  than  manipulating  the  body  ....  One  should  listen  to  the  body 
and  one  should  allow  the  body  to  have  its  say,  because  the  body  has  its  own  wisdom. 
Hatha  Yoga  has  deteriorated  very  much  down  the  centuries.  It  has  become  almost  a  mind 
over  the  body  thing  —  manipulating,  controlling,  forcing.  It  has  become  a  violent  method. 
The  very  word  'hath'  means  resistance,  stubbornness,  fight.  The  attitude  is  as  if  the  body 
has  to  be  conquered,  as  if  the  body  has  to  be  made  a  slave.  If  you  can  drop  that  pattern,  it 
will  be  tremendously  beauti-ful  to  work.  You  can  work,  but  you  will  have  to  imbibe  a 
totally  new  spirit. 

In  fact,  that  is  the  real  spirit  of  Hatha  Yoga.  It  is  a  deep  respect  for  the  body,  a  deep  love 
for  the  body.  It  is  not  really  forcing  anything  on  the  body;  it  is  persuading  the  body.  It  is  a 
great  art,  but  it  has  disappeared,  because  in  the  indian  mind  for  centuries  there  has  been  a 
dualism  between  the  body  and  the  mind.  They  have  been  trying  to  overpower  the  body, 
and  deep  down  there  is  a  current  that  the  body  is  the  enemy.  So  this  anti-body  attitude  has 
corrupted  the  whole  indian  thinking. 

So  if  you  can  work  on  these  lines  of  Aikido  —  relaxing,  making  the  body  more  flexible, 
more  liquid,  and  enjoying  it  and  going  with  it....  It  is  just  as  when  a  big  storm  comes,  a 
big  tree  resists  it.  It  does  not  bend.  It  is  ready  to  die,  but  it  is  not  ready  to  bend.  Then  it  is 
uprooted;  it  is  thrown.  The  storm  goes  but  the  tree  cannot  come  back  —  it  is  dead.  It 
cannot  stand  again.  But  small  bushes,  grass,  fall  on  the  earth  when  a  big  storm  comes, 
with  no  resistance  at  all.  It  has  no  idea  of  fight.  It  simply  enjoys  the  game.  The  storm  is 
gone,  the  grass  is  back  —  more  alive,  greener,  fresher.  The  storm  has  taken  only  its  dust, 
that's  all.  It  has  not  destroyed  it. 

Now  the  big  tree  is  more  powerful,  but  it  is  destroyed.  Soft  grass  is  just  humble.  You 
cannot  find  a  more  weak,  a  more  meek  thing,  but  it  survives.  The  biggest  storm  cannot  do 
anything  to  it.  The  way  of  the  grass  is  the  way  of  Aikido.  Bring  the  same  thing  to  Hatha 
Yoga  and  it  will  be  a  great  contribution  —  but  you  will  have  to  work  hard  at  it. 

So  choose  postures  which  are  more  in  tune  with  surrender.  Teach  people  not  to  force 
anything  on  the  body,  but  to  relax  and  let  the  body  flow  in  that  pattern.  It  should  be  more 
passive  and  less  active,  more  feminine  and  less  masculine.  The  indian  Yoga  was 
developed  basically  by  man,  so  it  is  too  masculine;  the  feminine  element  is  missing  from 
it.  The  feminine  element  is  what  I  mean  by  Aikido,  T'ai  Chi.  It  is  the  passive  element. 
Male  is  aggression,  female  is  reception,  welcome. 

So  you  can  start.  It  will  be  good  for  you;  it  will  be  good  for  other  sannyasins  to  learn  it. 
But  remember,  I  am  against  all  sorts  of  aggressive  things.  I  am  for  the  watercourse  way.  I 
am  against  the  attitude  of  the  rock.  I  am  for  the  attitude  of  the  water  —  and  finally  it  wins. 


The  soft  always  wins  over  the  hard.  The  feminine  always  wins  over  the  masculine. 
Blessed  are  the  meek  —  they  shall  inherit  the  earth. 

So  start  working  on  these  lines.  Think,  plan...  experiment.  And  whenever  you  need 
anything,  you  can  just  come  to  me  and  tell  me. 

[A  visitor  says:  I'm  just  here  to  see  you.] 

But  to  see  me  is  difficult!  You  will  need  different  eyes  to  see  me.  These  eyes  won't  help. 
With  these  eyes  you  can  see  something,  but  not  me.  You  will  need  eyes  of  love,  of 
meditation,  of  surrender,  trust,  otherwise  you  will  be  deceived.  You  will  think  that  you 
have  seen. 

In  fact,  to  see  me  you  will  have  to  first  see  yourself.  That  is  the  only  way.  You  can  see 
only  that  much  which  has  already  happened  in  you. 

For  example,  a  small  child  cannot  visualise  sex.  It  has  not  happened  to  him.  He  can  see 
two  persons  making  love,  but  he  cannot  figure  out  what  is  happening.  He  will  be  simply 
puzzled  and  he  will  miss  many  things.  He  will  be  just  seeing  the  outer  periphery  of  the 
whole  act.  Even  that  he  may  not  see,  because  we  see  only  that  which  we  can  see.  He  may 
just  pass  by.  He  may  think  that  these  two  people  are  fighting  with  each  other  or 
something.  One  day,  when  sex  arises  in  his  own  being,  then  suddenly  the  meaning  is 
revealed;  then  he  knows  what  it  was. 

In  the  same  way  meditation  also  happens.  Sex  happens  natur-ally.  For  meditation,  one 
has  to  work  hard.  Sex  is  part  of  an  evolutionary  process.  Meditation  is  a  revolution.  If 
you  enter  into  it,  you  enter,  otherwise  you  miss. 

So  if  you  really  want  to  see  me,  I  am  ready  —  but  you  will  need  courage.  You  have  asked 
a  dangerous  question!  And  remain  avail-able  to  sannyas.  Just  think  about  it.  Any  day  the 
madness  will  come  to  you  —  don't  resist  it! 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #16 
Chapter  title:  None 

5  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609055 
ShortTitle:  PASSI016 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

Anand  means  bliss  and  bhairava  means  god  —  god  of  bliss.  Bhairava  is  a  name  of  the  god 
Shiva.  He  is  a  totally  different  god  to  other  gods  in  the  world  —  life-affirmative, 
celebrating,  not  in  any  way  life-negating;  not  in  any  way  against  life,  but  for  it.  So  he  is 
the  god  of  bliss. 

Whatsoever  you  can  find  out  about  Shiva,  read;  that  will  help  you.  And  make  it  a 
continuous  remembrance  to  not  deny  anything,  to  not  fight  with  anything.  Don't  carry  any 
condemnatory  attitude.  All  is  good  and  everything  has  to  be  affirmed. 

Love  is  affirmation.  When  you  say  yes  to  life,  you  are  loving,  you  are  flowing.  When  you 
say  no  to  life,  you  are  stuck,  frozen.  That's  how  people  have  become  stuck  —  by  saying 


no  to  many  things.  There  are  people  who  cannot  say  yes.  No  comes  very  easy  to  them. 
Their  whole  attitude  is  based  on  negativity.  No  helps  the  ego  to  be  very  strong;  it  is  an 
ego-enhancer.  The  more  you  say  yes,  the  less  the  ego  can  exist.  And  the  less  the  ego,  of 
course  the  more  the  bliss. 

So  start  feeling  more  of  a  yes  attitude.  Even  sometimes  when  you  feel  it  is  difficult  to  say 
yes,  then  too,  try.  And  if  you  can  manage  to  say  yes,  you  will  suddenly  see  a  release  of 
energy  —  as  if  one  obstacle  has  been  transcended,  one  negation  has  been  dropped.  You 
will  feel  more  freedom  with  yes.  That's  what  I  see  in  your  energy  —  you  are  carrying  a 
few  no's,  negatives.  They  have  to  be  dropped.  That's  why  I'm  giving  you  the  name 
Bhairava. 

This  god  Shiva  is  a  non-aryan  god.  Before  the  Aryans  came  to  India  he  was  the  god  of 
the  pre-Aryans...  very  life-enhancing.  All  his  statues  are  of  dancing,  of  love.  He  is 
symbolized  by  the  sexual  phallic  symbol,  the  shivalinga.  People  have  become  almost 
oblivious  of  the  fact  of  why  the  god  Shiva  is  symbolised  by  the  phallic  symbol.  He  is  so 
life-affirmative  that  even  sex  has  to  be  absorbed.  That  is  life  energy.  That  too  has  to  be 
worshipped. 

So  with  the  name  Bhairava,  remember  it  —  become  more  of  a  yea-sayer  and  drop  nay¬ 
saying.  One  day  you  will  come  to  a  point  where  you  can  say  yes  to  all.  That  moment  is  of 
total  release.  One  is  free  so  nothing  confines  one,  nothing  holds  one  down. 

So  just  remain  watchful.  Whenever  your  old  mind  tends  to  say  no,  make  an  effort  to  say 
yes.  By  and  by  you  will  become  more  and  more  efficient  in  saying  yes.  And  the  more  you 
say  yes,  the  more  you  will  see  how  beautiful  it  is,  how  much  you  were  missing 
unnecessarily. 

A  person  who  says  no  all  his  life  goes  on  crippling  himself,  goes  on  denying  many  parts 
of  his  being,  disowning  them  and  becomes  smaller  and  smaller  and  smaller.  In  the  end  a 
no-sayer  simply  remains  a  no  —  doors  closed,  all  contact  with  life  lost.  That  is  actually 
what  spiritual  death  is  —  a  person  just  living  inside  a  no. 

Spiritual  life  is  living  with  yes  —  flying,  flowing  with  yes.  So  Bhairava  is  the  god  of  yes, 
affirmation,  love,  life.  Remember  it.... 

[A  sannyasin  says  that  since  Primal  Therapy,  when  he  looks  into  the  mirror  he  sees  his 
father's  face.  In  response  to  questions  from  Osho  he  answers  that  he  loved  his  father,  but 
has  not  relationship  with  him  since  seventeen  years.] 

...  The  Primal  therapy  must  have  brought  something  from  your  unconscious  to  the 
conscious  —  but  it  is  still  hanging.  If  it  had  been  brought  up  completely,  it  would  have 
disap-peared.  The  process  has  not  been  completed.  It  is  incomplete  —  and  incomplete 
processes  are  heavy.  It  is  better  not  to  start  them.  If  you  start  them,  then  finish  them. 

Many  people  in  the  West  are  suffering  from  many  sorts  of  methods  that  are  becoming 
prevalent.  They  are  not  complete  methods,  so  they  start  something  and  then  you  are  in  a 
limbo.  You  don't  know  what  to  do  with  it. 

...You  will  have  to  come  to  a  reconciliation,  because  to  be  conflicting  in  some  way  with 
your  own  father  is  very  dangerous,  because  half  of  your  being  belongs  to  him.  Unless  you 
are  reconciled  to  your  father,  you  will  never  be  reconciled  with  yourself  —  that's  the 
trouble. 

...  So  a  reconciliation  with  your  father  is  a  must  for  your  own  growth. 


Your  face  is  bound  to  reflect  your  father's  face.  It  comes  from  him.  It  is  natural;  it  is  how 
it  should  be.  And  as  you  grow  older,  more  and  more  your  father's  face  will  resemble 
yours,  and  your  face  will  resemble  your  father's  face. 

[The  sannyasin  answers:  I  don't  like  that  you  say  that.] 

That  is  not  the  question.  Liking  and  disliking  is  not  the  question.  One  has  to  come  to  a 
reconciliation.  You  don't  like  it  —  that's  why  the  problem  is  there.  That  means  you  will 
not  be  able  to  like  yourself.  It  is  your  face,  and  of  course  it  is  your  father's  face,  your 
grandfather's  face,  your  great-grandfather's  face.  It  is  the  face  of  the  whole  history  that 
has  preceded  you. 

You  are  not  alone.  You  are  part  of  a  great  chain;  you  are  linked  with  it.  You  could  not  be 
here  if  your  father  were  not.  You  are  here  because  of  him,  and  there  is  no  way  to  deny 
that.  All  denial  is  dangerous,  is  at  your  own  risk.  That's  what  you  have  been  doing. 

And  more  and  more  you  will  see  that  your  father's  face  resembles  your  face,  because  as 
you  grow  in  age,  more  and  more  your  face  will  reflect  his.  It  will  become  impossible  for 
you  to  look  in  the  mirror.  But  even  if  you  don't  look  in  the  mirror,  that  makes  no 
difference.  You  will  see  it  in  many  ways  —  in  your  hands,  in  your  body,  in  your 
behaviour,  in  your  talking,  in  your  tone,  in  your  sound.  He  will  be  everywhere  because 
you  come  as  part  of  him.  So  all  the  old  traditions  have  it  that  one  should  find  a 
reconciliation,  otherwise  one  will  never  be  reconciled  with  oneself. 

So  I  know  that  you  don't  like  it,  but  that  dislike  can  be  dropped.  Do  one  thing.  It  will  be 
hard  in  the  beginning,  but  you  will  have  to  pass  through  the  pain.  Make  it  a  point  every 
night,  for  at  least  twenty  minutes,  to  meditate  on  the  face  of  your  father  in  the  mirror. 
Help  it  to  be  there  and  just  watch  all  the  resemblances  in  your  own  face.  Create  the  whole 
fantasy  in  the  mirror.  Howsoever  much  you  want  to  recoil  back,  you  want  not  to  look, 
you  want  to  close  your  eyes  —  nothing  doing;  go  into  it.  Meditate  on  it  every  night  for 
twenty  minutes  and  don't  avoid  it. 

If  you  can  do  it,  within  three  months  many  things  will  happen.  First  the  face  will 
resemble  your  father's  face.  Then  some  day  suddenly  you  will  see  that  your  father's  face 
has  disappeared  and  it  is  somebody  else's  face  —  maybe  your  grandfather's  face.  Because 
that  too  is  there,  I  can  see  right  now  —  faces  behind  faces.  You  carry  the  whole  history  of 
a  chain,  of  a  heritage.  In  your  eyes,  in  your  colour,  in  your  face,  in  your  hair,  in 
everything.  You  are  not  alone  here  and  there  is  no  way  to  be  alone  here.  The  only  way  is 
to  be  connected  with  a  link. 

Every  cell  of  your  body  has  come  out  of  a  heritage,  a  long  tradition.  So  just  watch.  One 
day  you  will  see  suddenly  that  even  the  father's  face  has  disappeared;  there  is  somebody 
else.  If  you  know  your  grandfather,  maybe  you  will  recognise  him;  if  you  don't,  you  will 
see  some  unknown  face.  If  you  recognise  that  it  is  your  grandfather  then  one  day  that  too 
will  disappear  —  some  other  face...  You  will  be  able  to  go  deeper  into  those  faces,  and 
one  day  suddenly  you  will  see  that  all  faces  have  disappeared.  The  mirror  is  empty  and 
you  are  looking  into  it. 

This  can  happen  any  day  between  three  weeks  to  three  months  —  but  it  happens.  It  is 
bound  to  happen  if  you  continue.  The  day  all  faces  disappear,  your  problem  will  be 
dissolved.  Then  there  is  no  need  to  do  it.  When  all  faces  disappear,  you  have  come  to 


your  own  being,  and  that  has  no  face  —  or  call  it  your  face,  but  it  is  not  a  face.  Zen  people 
call  it  the  original  face.  The  Bauls  call  it  the  essential  man,  but  it  is  formless. 

Hidden  behind  all  these  faces  is  your  being.  Go  on  peeling.  You  peel  it  —  another  layer 
appears;  another  layer  —  you  peel  that  and  another  appears.  One  moment  comes  when  all 
the  layers  are  gone  and  just  emptiness  is  left  in  your  hands.  That  emptiness  will  resolve 
everything.  Then  you  will  feel  so  much  love  and  compassion  for  your  father,  for  your 
grandfather,  for  all  those  unknown  people  that  made  it  possible  for  you  to  be.  You  will 
feel  a  tremendous  compassion,  respect,  love.  And  when  it  comes,  go  to  your  father  and 
for  the  first  time  you  will  be  able  to  relate  to  him. 

But  this  method  will  be  very  painful  at  first  because  when  you  start  looking  into  your 
father's  face,  it  will  become  so  real  that  there  will  be  many  moments  when  you  will  forget 
whether  you  are  looking  in  the  mirror  or  it  is  your  father  looking  in  the  mirror.  Who  is 
real  —  you  or  the  image  in  the  mirror? 

And  it  is  going  to  be  painful  because  you  have  a  dislike  —  and  I  understand  your  dislike. 
Whenever  love  is  not  fulfilled,  hate  results.  You  wanted  to  love  him.  You  loved  him  but 
it  was  never  responded  to.  It  never  bounced  back  to  you;  nothing  came  in  return,  your 
love  was  frustrated.  That  frustration  has  become  a  revengeful  thing;  it  has  become  a 
revenge.  When  love  is  not  returned,  it  turns  sour.  It  turns  bitter,  it  turns  into  hate.  But 
your  dislike  simply  shows  that  you  still  love  the  man,  otherwise  dislike  would  not  be 
there.  Your  hate  simply  shows  that  you  are  still  waiting  —  some  day  he  will  come  and 
will  love  you  again  the  way  you  always  wanted  him  to  love  you. 

But  think  about  his  problem.  He  may  not  have  understood  what  you  wanted,  because 
people  have  their  own  problems.  He  may  not  yet  be  reconciled  with  his  own  father.  For 
example  if  you  give  birth  to  a  child,  there  will  be  trouble.  Either  you  will  repeat  your 
father's  pattern  or  you  will  overcompensate.  In  both  ways  there  will  be  trouble,  because 
you  can  do  only  to  your  child  the  same  as  your  father  had  done  to  you  It  is  a  repetition. 
And  two  are  the  possibilities:  either  you  do  too  much  —  overcompensation....  You  love 
the  child  too  much  because  you  were  never  loved  and  you  are  still  feeling  hurt.  But  that 
too  is  not  good  because  too  much  love  can  be  dangerous  for  the  child.  He  starts  feeling 
that  everybody  has  to  love  him.  Then  he  expects  too  much  from  the  world,  and  he  will  be 
frustrated  everywhere.  The  world  is  not  his  father  and  mother. 

So  if  a  father  and  mother  love  the  child  too  much,  he  expects  the  whole  world  to  love  that 
way.  By  and  by  he  will  become  more  and  more  frustrated  and  angry  at  you:  'Why  did  you 
love  me  so  much  in  the  first  place?' 

This  is  such  a  problem  —  to  have  the  right  relationship  between  the  child  and  the  parent. 
Up  to  now  thousands  of  ways  have  been  tried  —  all  have  failed.  It  seems  impossible  to 
find  the  right  way  of  relating.  If  you  love  too  much,  the  child  will  be  angry  with  you.  If 
you  had  not  loved  too  much,  he  would  have  had  a  better,  a  more  realistic  attitude  towards 
life.  He  would  not  have  expected  too  much  and  there  would  have  been  no  frustration.  He 
could  have  avoided  much  anxiety  and  anguish. 

If  you  don't  love  him  too  much  —  as  your  father  did  —  you  are  angry.  You  are  still  angry  - 
-  you  cannot  grow  out  of  it  —  and  you  think  that  he  has  betrayed  you.  And  when  your 
own  father  has  betrayed  you,  how  to  expect  that  anybody  else  is  going  to  love  you?  So 
you  are  always  suspicious  of  love.  You  will  always  suspect  that  something  else  must  be 
there.  If  I  say  I  love  you,  you  will  suspect,  because  your  own  father  never  loved  you,  so 
how  can  you  believe  this  strange  man?  You  cannot  believe  in  God  because  your  own 


father  deceived  you,  so  how  to  believe  in  a  god  who  is  the  father  of  the  whole  existence? 
Maybe  He  is  also  the  same  type.  Fathers  are  fathers.  Your  concept  of  your  father  will  be 
your  concept  of  God  also. 

So  there  is  a  problem,  and  up  to  now  human  understanding  has  not  come  to  a  point  where 
we  can  find  a  golden  mean.  Whatsoever  you  do  goes  wrong.  If  you  make  it  too  balancing, 
that  too  is  frustrating.  Then  everything  looks  very  calculated.  You  love  —  but  only  so  far 
to  keep  balance  —  and  then  you  don't  love;  so  there  is  neither  more  nor  less.  But  then  one 
looks  very  calculating,  mathematical,  and  the  child  feels  frustrated  —  because  a 
relationship  is  not  mathematics.  It  should  not  be  arithmetical,  it  should  not  be  so 
calculated.  It  should  be  a  flowing  thing.  It  cannot  be  flowing  if  the  father  follows  certain 
rules  that  you  have  to  love  fifty  percent,  and  fifty  percent  you  have  to  give  a  chance  to  the 
child  to  understand  that  reality  is  pain,  suffering,  competition,  struggle  and  everything 
else  that  is  implied. 

Then  the  child  starts  feeling  that  the  father  is  just  a  legal  father.  Of  course  he  is  doing 
everything  rightly,  but  he  is  doing  it  so  well  that  the  relationship  becomes  legal,  formal.  It 
lacks  the  informal  beauty.  Again  there  is  a  problem.  As  I  see  it,  problems  are  going  to  be 
there  and  everybody  has  to  come  to  a  reconciliation,  to  an  understanding.  This  will  help 
you  tremendously,  so  start  meditating  on  the  mirror. 

Always  remember  that  whatsoever  you  dislike,  face  it,  and  whatsoever  you  would  like  to 
avoid,  never  avoid.  Whatsoever  you  are  afraid  of,  go  into  it  —  that's  the  only  way  to  finish 
it,  otherwise  it  will  haunt  you  like  a  shadow.  And  your  father  is  still  alive  so  there  is  still 
some  possibility.  Once  he  is  gone  —  even  if  you  are  reconciled  within  yourself  —  you  will 
cry  that  now  you  cannot  go  to  him  and  say,  'Father,  I  forgive  you.  You  also  forgive  me. 
My  demands  were  irrational.  I  was  just  a  child  and  I  was  unaware  of  the  whole  world  and 
the  complexity  of  it.  Now  I  understand  that  whatsoever  you  did  was  the  only  thing  you 
could  do,  because  you  were  also  conditioned  by  your  father,  by  your  mother,  by  your 
society.  We  were  poles  apart;  there  was  an  abyss  and  no  bridge.  But  for  whatsoever  you 
did,  I  feel  grateful.' 

The  reconciliation  with  your  father  will  bring  a  new  vision  of  life  to  you.  You  will 
become  more  relaxed,  more  at  home,  more  at  ease,  and  your  life  style  will  change. 
Otherwise,  as  I  see  you,  you  are  in  a  continuous  tension,  deep  tension,  because  to  fight 
with  one's  father  is  to  fight  with  half  one's  self. 

So  start  this  mirror  meditation  as  from  tonight,  then  do  the  Intensive,  the  camp  and  then 
Primal.  That  will  be  perfect.  Much  is  going  to  happen.... 

[A  visitor  says:  I  really  feel  that  I'm  already  a  sannyasin.  I  mean,  I'm  surrendered  to  you, 
to  the  nature,  to  everybody.] 

Then  close  your  eyes  and  become  a  sannyasin.  Close  your  eyes.  If  you  really  mean  that 
you  are  already  a  sannyasin,  then  be  a  sannyasin. 

...  This  may  be  just  a  trick  —  it  is  a  trick.  By  saying  that  you  are  already  a  sannyasin,  you 
think  that  now  there  is  no  need  to  become  a  sannyasin.  You  are  not.  If  you  were,  I  would 
never  say  to  you  to  become  one.  But  you  are  not;  this  is  a  clever  trick. 


[The  visitor  replies:...  then  I'm  not  a  sannyasin.] 


Then  there  is  no  problem.  But  then  know  that  you  are  not  a  sannyasin.  You  may  be 
something  else;  I'm  not  talking  about  anything  else. 

But  these  are  clever  tricks  of  the  mind,  people  go  on  playing  games  with  themselves. 

They  say  'I  am  already  a  sannyasin,  so  what  is  the  need?'  If  you  are  already  a  sannyasin, 
then  why  not  accept  it?  What  is  the  fear?  If  you  say  'I  am  surrendered  —  surrendered  to 
you  as  I  am  to  everybody  ....'  You  are  not  surrendered  to  anybody,  because  even  to  be 
surrendered  to  one  person  is  so  difficult.  To  be  surrendered  to  everybody  is  impossible.  It 
happens  only  when  one  becomes  enlightened,  not  before. 

But  it  is  easy  to  say,  'I  am  surrendered  to  everybody  so  there  is  no  need  to  surrender  to 
you.'  It  is  better  to  be  dear  that  you  don't  want  to  be  surrendered.  Perfectly  good  —  but  at 
least  you  are  true.  Why  play  an  indirect  trick  upon  your  own  mind?  Whom  do  you  think 
you  are  kidding? 

If  you  are  not  surrendered,  perfectly  good.  I  am  not  saying  to  be  surrendered.  It  is  not 
easy  for  me  when  you  surrender.  I  am  taking  a  responsibility  on.  You  are  not  doing 
anything  when  you  surrender  to  me.  What  are  you  doing  in  surrendering?  What  have  you 
got  to  surrender?  I  am  taking  on  responsibility.  I  am  taking  somebody's  life  in  my  hands, 
and  I  have  to  be  careful  about  it.  It  is  a  delicate  phenomenon. 

For  you  it  may  be  just  a  curiosity;  for  you  it  may  just  be  because  you  see  so  many  people 
surrendered,  so  you  say  'Let  us  try'.  It  may  even  be  just  an  imitation.  But  for  me  it  is  not 
so  simple.  When  you  surrender  to  me,  I  am  taking  your  responsibility.  Now  if  you  fail,  I 
am  failing  with  you.  If  you  go  to  hell,  a  part  of  me  will  be  dragged  to  hell  with  you.  If 
you  are  miserable,  I  will  be  miserable.  Now  your  life  will  be  my  life. 

You  don't  know  what  surrender  means.  You  have  just  learned  the  word  and  you  think  you 
are  surrendered  to  me  as  you  are  to  everybody.  What  does  it  mean  to  be  surrendered  to 
everybody?  Better  to  say  'I'm  not  surrendered  and  I  don't  want  to  surrender'.  At  least  we 
are  on  clear  ground. 

...If  you  feel  that  you  are  already  surrendered,  then  why  worry?  Finished!  I  am  not 
saying  that  you  are  not  surrendered.  But  why  be  worried?  Why  even  think  about  sannyas? 
Why  ever  raise  the  question?  If  you  are  really  surrendered,  there  is  nothing  to  be  done 
about  it.  There  is  no  point  in  even  talking  about  it.  Why  did  you  start  talking  about 
sannyas?  You  must  have  read  these  things  in  books,  you  may  have  heard  about  them  — 
you  don't  know. 

Everybody  is  born  surrendered,  but  you  are  not  the  person  who  was  born.  The  society  has 
corrupted  you  absolutely.  You  are  no  more  the  person  that  was  born.  You  are  something 
else,  somebody  else.  Now  this  somebody  else  needs  surrender  so  that  you  can  again 
become  the  person  that  was  born  and  that  was  really  surrendered  to  nature. 

That  is  the  whole  effort.  Sannyas  is  a  rebirth.  Recognising  the  fact  that  you  have  fallen 
apart  from  nature,  that  you  have  gone  astray,  that  you  don't  know  where  nature  is,  what  it 

is,  that  you  have  become  artificial  and  arbitrary  —  recognising  this  fact,  you  come  to  a 
man  who  lives  in  nature,  who  lives  as  every  man  should,  who  is  absolutely  in  harmony. 
You  surrender  just  to  learn  the  ways  of  harmony.  If  you  walk  with  the  man  a  few  miles, 
you  may  get  the  infection  of  harmony. 

That's  what  surrender  is  —  walking  with  me  for  a  few  miles  —  just  to  be  with  me  for  a  few 
miles...  just  to  know  what  it  is  when  a  man  is  in  harmony.  What  does  it  mean  when  a  man 
is  natural?  What  does  it  mean  when  a  man  is  a  no-self?  Surrender  is  just  to  have  a  taste  of 

it,  that’s  all. 


Once  you  have  the  taste  of  it,  that  will  start  working.  You  will  be  pulled.  Then  you  have  a 
new  vision  of  life  and  that  will  start  pulling  you  inwards.  Right  now  you  are  not 
surrendered  and  you  are  not  natural;  you  are  not  in  harmony.  Think  about  it.  Just 
remember  one  thing  —  never  deceive  yourself  by  good  rationalisations. 

You  were  born  in  harmony  but  you  are  not  in  harmony.  By  becoming  a  sannyasin  you 
will  be  making  an  effort  to  move  towards  that  harmony.  You  don't  know  what  it  is.  You 
have  forgotten  the  very  language.  Just  being  with  people  who  know  something  of  that 
world,  who  live  in  that  world,  your  own  energy  starts  rising  again  in  a  new  way,  starts 
flowing  in  a  new  way,  that's  all.  It  is  just  like  an  infection. 

If  many  people  are  laughing  —  you  may  have  been  sad,  but  their  laughter  catches  you; 
you  start  laughing.  That  is  the  meaning  of  these  orange  people.  They  are  mad,  they  are 
surrendered.  They  are  living  a  very  crazy  way  of  life.  Just  looking  at  them,  feeling  them, 
their  ways,  their  music,  you  also  feel  it  would  be  good  to  be  with  these  people  for  a  little 
while.  And  one  never  knows  —  that  'little  while'  can  become  your  whole  life.  You  may 
never  leave.  It  may  be  not  just  for  a  few  miles  —  it  may  become  your  very  destiny.  But  in 
the  beginning  it  is  just  to  have  a  taste  of  it. 

Think  about  it.  If  you  feel  like  ....  But  be  clear  about  it.  Don't  talk  hocus-pocus 
rationalisations.  If  you  feel  you  are  in  harmony,  perfectly  good.  Be  in  harmony  with  my 
blessings.  I'm  not  going  to  disturb  you.  But  if  you  are  not,  learn  the  ways  of  harmony. 
Sannyas  is  just  a  way.  Think  about  it  for  a  few  days,  then  come  back. 

Or  are  you  ready  right  now?  If  you  are  ready,  then  close  your  eyes,  mm? 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  wrote  you  a  letter  about  having  recently  finished  a  relationship  with 
somebody,  and  since  then  I've  been  feeling  very  negative  towards  him. 

I  don't  understand  why  I  feel  so  antagonistic  to  someone  I  once  cared  about.  My 
understanding  is  that  perhaps  I  didn't  express  enough  negativity  during  the  relationship, 
but  I  don't  know  if  that's  true.] 

It  can  be  many  things.  It  can  be  that  you  didn't  express  your  negativity  —  that  happens. 
When  people  are  in  love  they  avoid  many  things  which  look  ugly.  They  go  on  being 
collected  inside.  When  the  love  continues  it  is  okay;  you  can  go  on  repressing  them.  But 
when  the  love  is  finished  and  the  person  is  gone,  then  there  is  no  point  in  repressing 
them.  They  all  explode  and  one  feels  very  negative. 

So  if  in  a  relationship  you  allow  both  feelings,  good  and  bad,  this  will  never  happen. 

Your  insight  may  be  true.  This  is  ninety  percent  the  possibility;  there  is  more  possibility 
of  it  being  this  than  anything  else.  But  life  is  never  simple.  It  is  very  complicated. 
Sometimes  it  happens  that  when  you  love  a  person,  your  whole  energies  are  involved. 
When  suddenly  the  love  is  broken,  you  don't  know  what  to  do.  Suddenly  you  are  stuck  — 
as  if  somebody  was  running  and  suddenly  he  is  paralysed.  Now  he  wants  to  run  but  the 
paralysis  won't  allow  him.  Then  everything  becomes  negative.  The  same  energy  that  was 
helping  you  to  run  will  create  restlessness  when  you  cannot  run.  So  maybe  you  loved  the 
person  too  much.  Your  energies  were  active,  flowing,  dynamic.  Now  suddenly 
everything  is  broken  and  you  don't  know  what  to  do.  Those  energies  are  there,  throbbing, 
but  there  is  nobody  to  shower  them  upon,  nobody  to  receive  them. 

So  those  throbbing  energies  can  turn  into  negativity,  because  positive  and  negative  are 
both  poles  of  the  same  energy.  If  the  positive  pole  is  missing,  the  energy  will  go  on 


accumulating  on  the  negative  pole.  If  the  positive  pole  is  available,  that  energy  will  flow 
and  become  creative,  otherwise  it  will  become  destructive. 

So  if  this  is  the  case,  find  another  lover.  Why  wait?  Don't  wait,  because  that  waiting  will 
be  negative.  Either  find  some  lover  or  find  something  that  you  love  so  deeply  that  your 
energy  starts  flowing  again.  Then  that  negativity  will  disappear  immediately. 

So  ninety  percent  is  the  first  possibility,  nine  percent  the  second,  and  there  is  one  percent 
possibility  that  you  never  loved  the  person  very  much;  you  were  pretending.  Maybe  it 
was  a  play,  a  game  that  you  were  enjoying.  Now  you  are  feeling  negative  —  not  against 
the  person;  that  may  be  a  projection  —  you  are  feeling  guilty  about  why  you  did  it  in  the 
first  place.  That  guilt  can  be  projected  on  the  person,  so  that  person  looks  like  the  culprit. 
It  always  happens  —  if  you  are  guilty  you  will  find  a  scapegoat  somewhere  on  whom  to 
throw  your  guilt,  to  put  your  guilt.  Now  he  seems  to  be  the  most  vulnerable.  The  love  is 
broken  —  there  is  nothing  to  protect  him. 

These  are  the  possibilities,  but  don't  be  too  worried  about  them. 

[Osho  said  that  one  should  not  be  too  concerned  with  lovers,  but  should  be  true  to  love 
itself,  and  it  would  be  helpful  if  Arti  found  someone  else  to  love. 

He  reiterated  that  she  should  channelize  her  negative  energy  into  some  activity  so  that  the 
energy  would  not  become  stale. 

Osho  said  that  next  time  she  was  in  a  relationship,  (she)  should  make  it  a  point  to  be 
absolutely  true,  expressing  both  negativity  and  positivity.  A  relationship  will  not  be 
eternal  and  one  should  be  in  it  as  totally  as  possible  so  that  there  is  no  lingering  grudge 
and  unfinished,  unexpressed  feelings. 

Finally  Osho  said  that  women  tended  to  make  love  their  only  creative  outlet  while  a  man 
tended  to  have  other  things  on  the  periphery...  ] 

Let  the  person  of  your  love  be  the  centre,  but  on  the  periphery  have  many  more  things. 

Let  them  all  be  reflected,  enhanced,  illuminated  by  your  love,  so  you  are  never  left 
feeling  empty. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #17 
Chapter  title:  None 

6  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609065 
ShortTitle:  PASSI017 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[A  visitor  who  had  done  the  Tathata  group  said  he  found  it  easy.  Osho  suggested  he  do 
the  Enlightenment  Intensive,  saying  that  that  would  be  more  intense.] 

When  you  take  the  challenge  of  a  certain  difficult  method,  you  grow.  Something  easy  is 
not  necessarily  good.  Something  may  look  easy  but  it  does  not  force  any  change  in  you.  It 
allows  you  as  you  are,  but  then  it  is  pointless.  The  whole  point  is  to  create  something  in 


you  higher  than  you  are,  something  in  you  deeper  than  you  are.  The  whole  effort  is  to 
help  you  to  go  a  little  beyond  yourself. 

A  thing  is  easy  if  it  fits  you.  A  thing  is  difficult  if  you  have  to  fit  with  it.  So  always 
remember  that  the  way  is  hard.  There  is  no  short  cut;  short  cuts  exist  not.  Everybody 
comes  by  the  hard  way.  When  something  becomes  too  easy,  find  something  hard  again. 
Otherwise  you  will  live  conveniently,  you  will  die  conveniently,  but  nothing  will  have 
happened.  Go  on  searching  for  some  new  challenge.  Go  on  looking  higher.  Even  if  it 
feels  impossible  to  reach,  it  will  help  you  to  grow.  Even  the  very  vision  of  something 
great  immediately  starts  transforming  you.  Even  with  a  dream  of  something  great,  you 
start  becoming  great. 

So  never  settle  with  the  easy.  People  tend  to  settle  too  easily,  and  of  course  then  growth 
stops.  As  psychologists  say,  if  you  look  at  people's  mental  age,  the  average  mental  age 
never  goes  beyond  thirteen.  A  man  may  be  seventy;  his  average  mental  age  remains  near 
twelve,  thirteen,  at  the  most,  fourteen.  Physically  he  is  seventy,  mentally  he  remains 
hanging  somewhere  near  thirteen  —  and  that  too,  on  an  average.  In  that  average,  geniuses 
are  included,  very  talented  people  are  included.  So  if  you  find  an  actual  person  and  forget 
the  average,  you  will  find  him  hanging  somewhere  near  seven  to  nine.  Since  that  age  they 
have  never  taken  any  challenge:  they  are  stuck  there.  Everybody  is  retarded  in  that  sense. 
So  never  miss  any  challenge,  and  if  there  is  no  challenge,  create  one.  Even  create  hurdles 
and  obstacles;  they  will  help  you.  They  will  make  you  stronger. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  see  my  craving  and  trying  to  fill  up  my  spaces  with  other  people. 

The  love  between  Somendra  and  me  is  so  beautiful.  The  pain  is  not  the  love.] 

It  is  a  sad  situation  but  can  be  of  tremendous  import.  Happiness  makes  people  shallow, 
sadness  gives  depth  —  and  sometimes  it  is  needed.  In  fact  you  never  get  anything  which  is 
not  needed.  Remember  it  is  a  very  fundamental  law.  You  may  not  get  something  that  you 
want,  but  you  always  get  that  which  you  need.  Somehow  the  universe  goes  on  fulfilling 
your  needs;  you  may  understand,  you  may  not  understand.  The  more  aware  you  become, 
the  more  you  see  that  in  that  moment,  sadness  was  needed.  It  is  a  necessary  ingredient  in 
growth. 

Love  is  good.  To  be  together  is  good,  but  to  be  alone  is  also  needed  —  to  be  so  alone  that 
one  feels  absolutely  hopeless  and  there  seems  to  be  no  possibility  that  one  will  be  able  to 
be  together  again;  the  darkness  seems  to  be  infinite.  One  seems  to  be  absolutely  lost,  with 
no  hope.  One  shouts  and  shouts  ...  no  response.  One  screams  and  cries,  and  there  is 
nobody  to  even  listen  to  you. 

In  these  moments,  the  mind  tends  to  fill  itself  up  with  anything,  whatever  it  is  — 
sometimes  eating  too  much,  sometimes  meeting  and  mixing  with  people,  sometimes  even 
pretending  to  fall  in  love,  because  the  loneliness  is  so  terrible.  But  if  you  really  want  to  be 
benefited  by  it,  blessed  by  it,  then  don't  fill  this  gap  —  live  it. 

Go  the  whole  way  in  it.  If  it  is  lonely,  be  lonely.  That  is  a  part  of  life  to  be  learned,  and  a 
very  basic  lesson  —  that  one  is  alone.  Then  everything  else  is  a  game.  You  can  hide  your 
loneliness  from  yourself  in  a  thousand  and  one  ways,  but  it  never  goes;  it  is  always  there. 
Layer  upon  layer  of.deception  you  can  create  —  we  call  it  maya,  illusion  —  but  deep 
down,  wherever  you  go,  you  will  again  find  that  emptiness,  the  loneliness  there. 


Somehow  one  has  to  stop  fighting  with  it.  Somehow  one  has  to  accept  it.  It  is  painful, 
terribly  painful  to  accept,  but  what  to  do?  That's  how  life  is.  So  my  suggestion  is,  don't 
escape  this  time.  Somendra  has  put  you  in  a  real  growth  situation.  It  is  your  own  fault  — 
you  found  a  groupleader,  so  what  to  do!  And  this  is  more  real  a  situation  than  any  group 
can  create. 

A  group  situation  is  always  artificial,  arbitrary.  It  has  nothing  to  compare  with  a  life 
situation.  This  is  a  life  situation.  Be  alone.  Let  it  hurt...  Let  it  hurt  the  whole  way.  Go  with 
it;  cry  and  weep  but  don't  try  to  escape.  There  comes  a  moment  when  you  have  touched 
the  very  extreme  and  suddenly  you  swing  back  —  but  that  happens  only  when  you  have 
touched  the  other  extreme.  It  is  just  like  the  pendulum  of  a  clock.  It  goes  to  the  left,  to  the 
very  extreme,  then  it  turns.  The  same  happens  in  the  mind. 

If  you  can  be  really  sad  to  the  very  end  of  it  and  you  are  not  resisting  it,  in  fact  you  are 
riding  on  it  and  are  going  into  it ....  You  want  to  see  exactly  what  it  is  and  how  far  it  can 
go.  You  are  not  in  any  way  against  it.  You  are  simply  going  with  it.  You  are  really  in  a 
very  deep  enquiry  to  know  how  much  sadness  is  possible,  how  lonely  one  can  be  and 
how  much  it  can  hurt. 

Nobody  has  ever  been  killed  by  sadness.  Nobody  has  ever  been  killed  by  loneliness, 
otherwise  the  world  would  have  disappeared  long  ago.  If  you  can  go  to  the  very  end  of  it, 
all  the  way,  rushing  towards  the  very  peak  of  it,  suddenly  one  moment  will  come  when 
you  can  see  the  swing  happening.  And  that  is  a  tremendously  beautiful  moment  —  to  see 
energies  changing.  It  is  the  same  energy  that  becomes  sadness,  that  becomes  happiness, 
that  becomes  joy,  that  becomes  pain.  It  is  the  same  energy. 

We  don't  have  many  energies  —  we  have  only  one.  That  same  energy  becomes  anger,  that 
same  energy  becomes  compassion.  That  same  energy  becomes  love,  that  same  energy 
becomes  hatred.  It  has  multi-potentialities.  It  is  multi-dimensional.  And  one  has  to  know 
all  its  ways  because  it  is  us!  We  have  to  know  ourselves.  That's  what  self-knowledge  is. 
When  Socrates  says  'Know  thyself,'  what  does  he  mean?  He  simply  means  know  all  the 
possibilities  of  your  being.  Sadness  is  a  possibility.  If  you  don't  know  it,  you  will  never 
become  aware  of  yourself.  Self-knowledge  will  never  happen  because  a  part  of  you  will 
remain  in  ignorance.  So  never  lose  any  opportunity.  These  are  God-given  opportunities. 
Go  into  sadness  so  deeply  that  you  know  the  whole  path,  you  know  the  whole  pain.  And 
pain  transforms.  Pain  is  like  fire.  It  melts  the  gold  but  it  purifies  it.  Whatsoever  is 
accidental  will  be  burned  in  it,  but  whatsoever  is  essential  will  come  out  of  it  purer.  Out 
of  each  sadness  —  if  one  goes  to  the  very  end  —  one  will  come  out  stronger,  more 
grounded,  centred.  You  will  not  be  able  to  recognise  your  own  face.  You  will  have  such  a 
grace  if  you  can  go  to  the  very  end  of  it.  And  when  it  changes,  you  see  that  moment  when 
suddenly  you  are  on  the  threshold  of  change  —  the  night  turning  into  the  morning.  The 
stars  disappear  and  the  sun  is  rising  on  the  horizon.  The  very  darkness  becomes  light  and 
dawn.  It  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  experiences  that  man  can  ever  have. 

But  we  miss  because  we  never  go  to  the  very  end.  We  fight.  We  somehow  manage  and 
manipulate  ourselves  to  be  with  somebody,  to  create  some  sort  of  happiness,  just  to  avoid 
it.  Of  course  then  that  happiness  is  also  bogus.  It  is  not  true,  it  cannot  be  true,  because 
your  inner  being  was  ready  to  go  to  the  very  end  of  sadness  and  you  created  a 
contradiction.  You  enforce  some  false  happiness.  The  energy  was  going  in  one  direction 
and  you  are  forcing  it  into  another.  You  can  force  it  —  it  is  your  energy  —  but  whatsoever 
the  outcome  is,  it  will  be  unnatural. 


Happiness  will  be  there  but  it  will  not  be  real.  Real  happiness  comes  out  of  real 
unhappiness,  because  only  the  real  can  be  transformed  into  the  real.  This  is  the  base  of  all 
alchemical  work.  The  real  can  be  changed  only  into  the  real.  Even  the  baser  metal  can  be 
changed  into  gold,  but  it  should  be  real. 

So  go  with  it.  Have  a  real  trip  to  hell.  Visit  hell  —  and  go  deliberately.  The  faster  you  go 
and  the  more  whole-heartedly  you  go,  the  sooner  will  you  reach  to  the  end.  It  can  be 
reached  in  a  single  moment.  It  depends  on  the  intensity  and  how  fast  you  go  into  it.  If  you 
don't  fight,  the  energy  will  take  you.  In  a  single  moment  you  can  reach  to  the  very 
boundary  of  sadness  and  you  can  see  the  dawn,  the  sun  rising,  and  the  energy  changing  of 
its  own  accord.  And  you  are  not  making  any  effort  to  change. 

[Osho  said  that  as  one  became  capable  of  witnessing  this  phenomenon,  by  and  by  there 
was  no  need  to  suffer  the  anguish  and  confusion.  Everything  is  leading  towards 
'satchitanand'  —  truth,  consciousness,  bliss. 

Once  one  has  experienced  aloneness,  love  has  a  totally  different  quality.  It  is  not  a  need 
but  just  a  sharing,  a  luxury.] 

And  I  am  here,  don't  be  worried.  I  am  there  in  your  loneliness,  waiting  and  watching  for 
you,  so  be  courageous  and  don't  escape  this  time,  mm?  Good! 

[The  Primal  therapy  group  were  present.  Osho  asked  one  of  the  leaders,  how  he  felt  about 
the  new  method  in  which  the  three  therapists  worked  with  three  or  four  participants  each, 
and  then  all  met  and  worked  as  a  group. 

The  leader  replies:  It  took  a  long  time  for  the  group  to  gel,  to  become  a  group  and  to 
work. 

[A  group  member  said:  A  lot  of  good  things  happened  in  the  group,  but  I  feel  really 
strange.  I  don't  feel  happy  right  now,  and  sometimes  I  feel  frightened. 

Osho  checked  her  energy  and  said  that  he  could  see  a  block  was  there.] 

Just  do  one  thing  in  the  night  before  you  go  to  sleep.  You  can  sit  in  a  chair  or  in  your  bed, 
but  be  comfortable.  Close  your  eyes  and  relax  the  whole  body.  Be  limp  and  loose.  If  you 
body  starts  to  slump  forwards,  allow  it.  Allow  it  any  posture  it  takes.  My  feeling  is  that  it 
will  slump  forwards  and  take  a  womb  posture  —  just  as  the  child  remains  in  the  mother's 
womb.  So  keep  a  pillow  in  front  of  you  and  relax  in  that  way.  But  let  the  body  move  as  it 
wants;  I'm  not  saying  to  do  it. 

When  you  feel  that  the  body  has  settled,  enter  into  your  being  and  go  to  your  stomach  as 
if  you  have  become  very  small  and  are  going  into  your  own  stomach.  It  is  not  difficult; 
you  will  be  able  to  do  it. 

In  the  stomach  you  will  feel  very  empty  and  dark.  Accept  that  emptiness  and  darkness.  If 
sometimes  you  forget  about  it,  go  in  again.  For  ten  minutes  you  have  to  make  all  efforts 
to  go  there  and  just  to  be  there.  Within  seven  days  your  block  will  disappear.  You  just 
have  to  bring  your  conscious  again  and  again  to  that  block. 

Consciousness  functions  like  heat,  and  any  block  can  be  dissolved  through 
consciousness;  you  just  have  to  take  the  consciousness  to  it.  It  is  just  like  a  torch  you  take 
inside  yourself.  In  the  beginning  you  will  feel  dark  and  empty.  By  the  time  seven  days  are 


complete,  you  will  start  feeling  very  cosy  —  not  cold,  warm,  and  not  dark...  a  very  small, 
soothing  light,  as  if  it  is  early  morning  and  the  sun  has  not  risen,  a  full  moon  night. 

If  you  feel  that  you  enjoy  it  and  it  is  going  well,  you  can  continue  it  after  seven  days.  But 
if  you  feel  that  the  block  has  disappeared  and  there  is  no  need,  you  can  stop  it.  There  is 
nothing  to  be  worried  about. 

[A  group  member  said:  I  dry-sobbed  my  way  through  all  the  events  I  was  going  through, 
and  I  wonder  now  why  I  couldn't  cry....  I  used  to  cry  a  lot.] 

Then  there  will  be  nothing  to  cry  —  that's  the  trouble.  If  you  have  cried  a  lot,  there  is 
nothing  left! 

...  nothing  to  be  worried  about.  If  a  child  is  allowed  to  cry  and  he  enjoys  it,  there  is  no 
problem.  If  you  do  the  same  group  with  Indians,  nobody  will  cry  because  they  were  all 
allowed  to  cry  and  scream.  Nobody  forces  them  not  to  cry  or  anything.  It  is  taken  for 
granted  that  children  do  that.  So  the  primal  scream  will  not  come  to  them.  They  have 
screamed  a  lot  already.  The  primal  scream  comes  only  because  children  have  not  been 
allowed  to  scream.  So  it  is  repressed  there,  waiting,  struggling  to  come  up. 

That's  why  you  went  so  easily  through  the  whole  thing  and  there  was  no  crying.  I  don't 
see  that  there  is  any  cry  within  you.  If  someday  anything  comes,  it  will  be  like  laughter, 
not  like  crying.  So  pay  more  attention  to  laughter! 

[A  group  member  says:  I  didn't  like  being  pushed  and  often  I  wished  to  leave,  but  I  didn't. 
I  had  a  lot  of  difficulty  in  getting  in  touch  with  deep  feelings  through  these  exercises.] 

No,  the  problem  was  with  you,  not  with  the  group.  If  you  don't  like  being  pushed,  then 
the  whole  group  is  missed;  there  was  no  point  in  it.  You  should  have  left.  Always 
remember  that  there  is  no  point  in  doing  a  thing  which  you  don't  want  to  do.  There  is  no 
point  because  nothing  will  come  out  of  it,  only  frustration.  You  will  never  really  do  it. 
You  will  be  just  playing  around,  thinking  maybe  something  will  happen;  let  us  see.  But 
you  resent  it.  You  don't  like  being  told  to  do  this,  you  don't  like  being  disciplined.  Then 
nothing  can  happen,  because  a  group  has  a  discipline. 

[The  sannyasin  asks:  Yes,  but  how  to  get  out  of  my  stupid  resistance?] 

I  will  give  you  a  few  stupid  things  to  do,  and  you  will  get  out  by  and  by.  Many  people 
have  this  attitude  —  particularly  the  new  generation  all  over  the  world  —  that  there  is 
something  wrong  in  being  disciplined,  in  being  told  to  do  something.  They  think  their 
freedom  is  denied.  But  only  a  disciplined  man  can  have  freedom;  nobody  else  can  have 
freedom.  You  can  have  licence  but  that  is  a  totally  different  thing  —  not  freedom. 

Freedom  is  a  very  responsible  thing.  It  needs  great  alertness  and  alertness  needs  great 
discipline.  They  depend  on  each  other. 

It  is  a  hierarchy.  If  you  discipline  your  life  in  a  certain  way,  you  become  more  centred. 
With  a  more  centred  being,  you  have  more  light  inside,  more  awareness.  Otherwise, 
everything  becomes  diffused.  Everything  becomes  topsy-turvy  and  you  become  a  mess,  a 
chaos.  Then  you  don't  have  any  inner  order. 

So  there  is  no  need  to  become  a  slave.  Discipline  is  not  slavery.  If  some  discipline  is 
forced  on  you  against  yourself,  then  it  is  a  slavery.  But  if  you  choose  it,  it  is  not.  For 


example,  somebody  comes  and  starts  operating  on  your  stomach;  then  he  is  trespassing. 
But  if  you  go  to  a  surgeon  and  you  pay  him  a  fee  and  he  operates  on  you,  it  is  freedom.  It 
is  out  of  your  own  voluntary  will  that  you  have  come  to  him.  It  is  you  who  has  decided  to 
be  operated  on.  So  he  is  not  a  butcher  or  a  murderer  or  anything.  You  can  say  any 
moment,  'Stop!  I  don't  want  it.  I  am  finished  with  it,'  and  he  has  to  stop. 

When  you  go  into  a  group,  it  is  on  your  own  will  that  you  have  decided  to  participate  in 
it;  nobody  is  forcing  you.  You  decided  to  play  the  game,  so  you  have  to  follow  the  rules. 
That's  what  I  am  suggesting.  If  you  were  feeling  that  it  was  not  for  you,  that  you  don't 
want  to  be  disciplined,  then  leave  immediately.  What  is  the  point  of  being  there?  Being 
there  will  just  be  futile. 

You  participate  in  another  two  groups  after  the  camp.  First,  in  the  camp,  try  to  do  what  I 
am  saying.  It  is  according  to  your  will.  If  you  don't  want  to  participate,  then  follow  the 
rules  of  the  game.  In  the  camp  do  an  the  meditations  as  hard  as  possible,  as  totally  as 
possible.  Particularly  the  Dynamic  meditation  will  be  helpful  to  break  this,  because 
getting  up  early  in  the  morning,  the  mind  starts  thinking  'Why  bother?  Why  force 
anything  upon  yourself?  Why  not  be  spontaneous?  Why  not  sleep  a  little  more?' 

To  enter  into  some  discipline  is  so  beautiful,  and  it  gives  so  many  new  visions  and 
insights,  that  once  you  know  it ....  People  have  wrong  associations  about  discipline  — 
parents  saying  to  them,  'Do  this,  don't  do  that';  their  orders  are  almost  foolish.  The  child 
sees  the  foolishness  of  it,  but  he  has  to  yield  to  it  because  the  parents  are  powerful.  Then 
teachers  and  all  sorts  of  stupid  people  teach  and  force  things  on  the  child  which  the  child 
knows  are  meaningless,  but  still  he  knows  he  has  to  do  them.  Then  the  whole  society 
does  the  same.  It  is  a  stupid  society  and  it  goes  on  forcing  stupid  things  on  people,  so 
wrong  associations  arise.  But  that  wrong  association  is  dangerous.  You  will  miss  a  few 
beautiful  things. 

It  is  bad  to  follow  a  stupid  man  and  his  discipline,  but  if  you  can  find  somebody  who  is 
more  alert  than  you,  follow  him.  Follow  blindly,  because  he  will  introduce  you  to 
something  new.  If  you  can  find  somebody  who  knows  better  than  you,  who  knows  more 
than  you,  who  loves  more  than  you,  listen  to  him.  His  discipline  is  going  to  help  you. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #18 
Chapter  title:  None 

7  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609075 
ShortTitle:  PASSI018 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[To  two  resident  sannyasins  returning  for  a  brief  visit  to  the  States  to  see  their  parents, 
Osho  spoke  about  how  one  could  introduce  one's  parents  to  sannyas,  meditation,  and 
Osho,  in  a  way  that  would  be  acceptable.  He  said  one  should  not  try  to  argue,  but  simply 
let  one's  being,  one's  happiness,  be  evidence  of  one's  new  life. 

He  said  to  meditate  and  let  their  parents  watch,  without  enforcing  anything  on  them. 
Meditation  is  the  greatest  gift  one  can  give  to  one’s  parents...  j 


...  and  in  fact  everybody  is  in  need  of  meditation.  Everybody  is  starved  of  it.  Particularly 
as  one  grows  older  in  life,  more  and  more  is  the  necessity  felt.  Of  course  people  have 
completely  forgotten  the  language  of  it.  They  cannot  even  form  the  right  question  about 
what  is  missing.  They  simply  feel  that  something  is  missing;  they  don't  know  what.  They 
are  bewildered  by  it.  They  may  have  everything.  One  may  have  arrived  in  worldly  ways, 
succeeded,  but  by  the  time  that  one  reaches  the  age  of  forty-two,  one  starts  feeling  that 
something  is  missing. 

Forty-two  is  just  like  the  age  of  fourteen.  At  the  age  of  fourteen  you  start  feeling  that 
something  is  missing.  The  sexual  partner  is  missing;  the  man  or  the  woman  is  missing. 
Suddenly  you  feel  that  you  are  alone,  incomplete.  You  need  somebody  to  complement 
and  complete  you.  A  great  desire  arises  to  move  into  love. 

Exactly  the  same  happens  at  the  age  of  forty-two.  Again  one  has  matured  —  deeper  than 
the  maturity  that  comes  at  fourteen.  That  was  physical  maturity;  one  was  ready  to  make 
love  physically.  Forty-two  is  the  age  when  one  is  psychologically  mature,  and  is  ready  to 
make  love  psychologically. 

That's  what  meditation  is  all  about.  Because  in  the  West  people  have  completely 
forgotten  —  and  Christianity  has  never  talked  about  meditation,  but  at  the  most  about 
prayer,  which  is  a  very  diluted  form,  which  doesn't  work  much  —  when  people  become 
older,  when  they  come  to  the  middle  of  their  life,  suddenly  they  feel  a  haunting,  that 
something  is  missing;  what  is  it?  They  cannot  even  pinpoint  it.  They  cannot  put  their 
finger  on  it:  'This  is  what  is  missing.' 

People  start  drifting  at  the  age  of  forty-two.  They  think  this  wife  is  not  fulfilling  because 
they  know  only  one  experience.  At  the  age  of  fourteen  there  was  a  haunting  of  sexuality. 
Maybe  again  this  wife  is  not  satisfying,  this  man  is  not  satisfying.  So  they  swap  wives, 
swap  husbands,  make  group  sex.  There  is  only  one  language,  and  that  is  of  sex.  Or  they 
start  thinking  that  they  need  more  money,  a  bigger  house,  bigger  cars,  because  that  is  the 
whole  logic  they  have  been  living  by  and  they  cannot  find  any  satisfaction  through  it. 
They  go  on  and  on  and  on  until  they  simply  fall  down  dead  and  die. 

But  meditation  is  as  natural  an  urge  as  sex.  It  has  its  own  time.  So  when  you  go  back 
home,  go  with  this  mission.  Then  you  are  taking  something  from  me  for  them.  And  if 
they  criticise,  listen  to  it  very  attentively.  Don't  try  to  reply,  rather  let  your  whole  being 
respond.  If  they  say  what  nonsense  you  have  done  by  taking  sannyas  —  which  is  a  natural 
thing  to  say  —  laugh  about  it.  Don't  take  it  negatively.  Enjoy  the  idea  and  tell  them  it  is 
nonsense. 

Very  slowly  you  can  make  the  impact.  One  has  to  be  very  soft,  not  hard.  Don't  forget 
what  has  happened  to  you,  and  don't  fall  into  the  old  pattern.  That  too  is  very  possible. 
When  one  goes  to  one's  parents,  it  is  very  difficult  to  remain  new.  Their  expectation,  your 
fear,  and  the  difficulty  in  communication,  tends  to  help  one  fall  into  the  old  pattern.  If 
you  fall  into  the  old  pattern  they  will  not  be  able  to  see  what  has  happened;  they  will 
think  you  have  simply  changed  your  clothes.  Then  it  is  foolish. 

Unless  the  rainbow  has  happened  inside,  just  changing  the  colour  of  the  clothes  is 
absolutely  absurd.  So  remember  it.  In  the  beginning  it  is  difficult;  one  tends  to  fall  into 
the  old  pattern  and  one  starts  talking  to  the  mother,  to  the  father,  in  the  old  way.  One 
starts  making  old  gestures;  old  body  language  again  erupts.  You  have  got  your  body  from 
them,  you  have  learned  all  your  body  gestures  from  them.  Their  very  presence  is 


provocative.  You  have  lived  in  your  mother's  womb.  You  are  part  of  their  being  — 
extensions. 

When  you  are  close  to  a  parent,  suddenly  you  start  vibrating  in  his  tune,  and  of  course  he 
is  more  powerful  and  he  is  going  to  remain  more  powerful.  He  is  more  experienced,  more 
settled,  more  authoritative.  You  immediately  start  following  his  rhythm.  That  is  very 
unconscious.  You  start  vibrating  in  his  rhythm.  That's  why  children  feel  very  awkward 
and  embarrassed.  The  more  something  new  happens  to  a  child,  the  more  he  finds  it 
difficult  to  approach  the  parent,  because  on  becoming  closer,  he  starts  vibrating  in  some 
past  rhythm.  His  own  rhythm  is  lost. 

So  for  seven  days  you  have  to  remember  it  and  then  you  will  not  be  in  any  difficulty  after 
that.  In  fact  they  will  start  feeling  that  a  new  rhythm  has  arisen  in  you.  They  will  start 
feeling  the  attraction  of  you,  the  grace,  the  beauty,  the  grandeur.  Then  you  are  more 
powerful.  Then  they  can  fall  into  your  rhythm  and  can  have  a  new  taste  of  life. 

[To  a  sannyasin  returning  to  Germany,  Osho  suggested  that  it  would  be  very  helpful  to 
make  meditation  a  regular  part  of  her  routine.  He  said  sometimes  it  was  permissible  to 
miss  a  meal  —  could  even  be  beneficial  —  but  to  miss  meditation  meant  to  undo  months  of 
work.] 

It  is  very  delicate  work.  In  months  some  energy  is  created,  and  within  days  it  can 
disappear  —  unless  you  have  come  to  a  point  which  is  known  as  the  point  of  no  return.  It 
comes  one  day. 

It  is  exactly  the  same  as  when  you  heat  water  to  ninety  degrees.  It  is  still  water;  then  to 
ninety-five  degrees  —  it  is  still  water.  At  ninety-nine  degrees  it  is  still  water  and  if  you 
stop  heating  it,  it  will  cool  down;  the  heat  will  be  dissipated.  You  will  have  to  reheat  it 
again.  But  if  it  comes  to  one  hundred  degrees,  then  it  jumps;  it  evaporates.  It  has  come  to 
a  point  from  where  a  very  radical  change  has  happened. 

The  same  happens  with  meditation.  You  go  on  accumulating  it;  it  is  cumulative.  You  do 
it  every  day  —  you  go  on  accumulating  a  subtle  energy  in  your  being.  It  comes  higher  and 
higher  and  higher:  ninety  degrees,  ninety-nine  degrees.  If  you  stop  even  then,  it  will 
disappear.  It  will  be  dissipated,  because  the  whole  life  is  non-meditative  and  it  is  easily 
destroyed. 

The  whole  world  is  non-meditative.  The  people  you  will  be  meeting,  working  with, 
talking  to,  are  all  non-meditative.  When  you  carry  a  high  energy,  people  who  are  not  that 
high  simply  suck  you  —  unknowingly.  It  is  just  as  if  there  is  water  —  it  will  start  flowing 
downwards.  All  energies  move  downward.  People  are  just  like  valleys.  It  is  natural  that 
your  energy  starts  flowing  towards  them.  Their  level  is  lower  than  yours. 

Hence  regularity  is  very  very  significant.  Otherwise  you  create  something  and  if  you 
think  'Now  I  have  created  enough;  I  am  feeling  very  good',  for  a  few  days  you  will  feel 
good,  but  then  again  the  energy  will  be  lost. 

If  you  continue  regularly,  by  and  by  your  level  goes  higher  and  higher  and  higher.  One 
day  it  suddenly  happens  that  you  evaporate.  Then  meditation  is  just  a  natural  thing. 
Whether  you  do  it  or  not  does  not  matter.  Non-doing,  you  are  still  in  it.  WaLking,  you  are 
in  it;  eating,  you  are  in  it;  working,  you  are  in  it;  sleeping,  you  are  in  it.  Then  meditation 
becomes  your  whole  life.  Before  that  happens,  regularity  has  to  be  maintained. 


[A  sannyasin  says:  I  was  doing  buddhist  meditation  for  two  years....  I  kept  falling  asleep!] 


Mm,  that's  possible  in  a  buddhist  meditation...  very  possible.  That's  why  zen  masters  have 
to  keep  a  staff  continuously  to  hit  the  disciples,  because  they  are  always  dozing.  The 
whole  method  is  so  silent,  so  relaxing,  that  the  natural  possibility  is  to  fall  into  sleep. 
Whenever  we  relax,  whenever  we  are  silent,  we  fall  asleep,  so  with  relaxation  there  is  a 
deep  association  with  sleep. 

That's  what  we  have  been  doing  for  our  whole  life  —  and  the  buddhist  meditation  depends 
on  relaxation.  So  once  you  relax,  the  mind  gets  the  hint  that  now  you  are  ready  to  sleep, 
because  that  is  the  only  way  it  has  come  to  know  sleep.  It  has  no  other  way,  no  other 
experience.  It  cannot  figure  it  out  —  if  you  are  relaxed,  why  aren't  you  going  to  sleep? 

[Osho  said  it  is  a  conditioning  —  just  like  the  conditioned  response  of  Pavlov's  dogs  who 
were  trained  to  respond  to  the  ring  of  a  bell  by  the  subsequent  reward  of  meat.  After  a 
time  the  meat  could  be  withheld,  but  the  dogs  would  still  continue  to  salivate  at  the  sound 
of  the  bell.] 

To  fall  asleep,  relaxation  is  a  must,  but  relaxation  is  not  necessarily  a  step  towards  sleep. 

It  can  become  a  step  towards  meditation  too.  But  then  a  great  change  of  your  past 
associations  is  needed,  otherwise  you  will  fall  asleep.  But  it  is  good  that  you  tried.  With 
my  meditations  it  will  never  happen  because  they  are  so  active.  They  create  a  turmoil  in 
your  energy,  a  chaos;  you  cannot  fall  asleep.  And  for  the  modern  mind,  that  seems  to  be 
the  best  possibility. 

In  the  old  days  when  Buddha  was  here  and  when  he  invented  his  meditations,  people 
were  absolutely  relaxed.  In  India  in  those  days  —  all  over  the  world  in  those  days  — 
people  were  sleeping  almost  twelve  hours  because  there  was  no  electricity,  no  kerosene, 
no  light  or  anything.  Even  now  in  indian  villages,  that  is  the  case.  Thousands  of  villages 
have  no  light,  so  the  sunset  is  the  end  of  the  day.  Then  what  to  do?  You  gossip  a  little  or 
sing  a  little,  or  dance  a  little  and  then  go  to  sleep.  By  the  time  it  is  eight,  the  whole  village 
is  fast  asleep  —  and  there  is  no  point  in  getting  up  too  early. 

So  people  have  been  sleeping  deeply.  When  a  person  has  slept  absolutely,  then  even  if 
relaxation  happens,  sleep  will  not  come,  because  the  sleep  need  is  fulfilled.  And  people 
were  working  hard.  They  were  working  the  whole  day  as  they  still  do  in  the  East. 
Technology  had  not  yet  replaced  their  work.  So  when  you  work  hard  and  you  sleep  well, 
your  need  is  completely 

el  relaxed,  the  seou  sit  silently,  relaxation  will  come,  sleep  will  not  follow,  and  your 
energy  will  start  moving  in  a  new  direction. 

Relaxation  is  a  step  towards  both  sleep  and  samadhi.  After  relaxation  there  is  a 
bifurcation.  Either  you  go  into  sleep  or  you  go  into  samadhi;  these  are  the  two 
possibilities. 

It  is  very  difficult  for  the  modern  mind  to  feel  relaxed  in  the  first  place.  But  if  you  feel 
relaxed,  the  second  problem  is  not  to  fall  asleep.  People  are  not  sleeping  as  much  as  they 
should,  as  much  as  the  body  needs  biologically,  and  they  are  not  working  hard  either. 
Without  hard  work,  sleep  is  impossible.  You  have  to  do  hard  work,  then  the  body  creates 
the  need  to  relax.  So  people  are  not  working  —  hard  work  has  disappeared  —  and  they  are 
not  sleeping  well. 


So  whenever  they  start  meditating  —  any  meditation  like  a  buddhist  meditation  —  they 
start  falling  asleep.  Hence  my  insistence  on  active  and  dynamic  methods.  Once  you  start 
tasting  —  once  that  opening  has  started  functioning  and  a  few  glimpses  of  satori  have 
come  to  you  through  active  methods  —  then  you  can  again  start  buddhist  methods,  and 
they  will  be  tremendously  meaningful. 

So  do  a  few  groups  here  —  and  simply  do  what  I  say.  It  is  easier  that  way! 

[The  Soma  group  was  present  tonight.  The  group  leader  said:  There  were  three  points  felt 
almost  unanimously  in  the  group,  so  I  decided  to  bring  them  up  for  myself. 

The  first  is  that  we  used  some  Kundalini  Yoga  in  the  morning,  which  was  very  powerful, 
but  almost  everybody  was  suffering  from  a  tremendous  amount  of  heat  in  the  base  of  the 
spine  and  at  the  top  of  the  head. 

The  second  thing  was  that  there  were  several  people  who  didn't  speak  English  so  I  had  to 
speak  three  different  languages  which  was  a  distraction  for  the  rest  of  the  group. 

The  third  thing  was  the  food.  They  want  purer  food.  If  you  think  it's  important  I  could 
investigate  more  and  plan  some  menus.] 

Mm,  the  first  thing....  Kundalini  Yoga  methods  can  create  heat.  Then  the  body  can  also 
feel  uncomfortable,  and  pains  in  many  parts  of  the  body  can  come.  But  it  is  very  good 
and  helpful.  So  when  you  do  these  breathing  exercises,  tell  everybody  to  imagine 
simultaneously  that  the  body  is  getting  cool.  That  will  balance  —  otherwise  it  can  become 
very  very  hot.  The  whole  body  energy  starts  moving  in  Kundalini.  It  becomes  so 
concentrated  there  that  it  is  almost  fire. 

In  Tibet  they  do  miracles  through  it.  The  tibetan  lama  can  sit  under  the  open  sky  in  falling 
snow  naked  —  and  perspire.  Just  a  certain  breathing  throws  the  whole  energy  into  the 
spine;  so  it  can  become  too  much. 

They  have  to  feel  that  by  breathing  they  are  cooling  the  whole  system.  Just  the  idea  of 
coolness  should  be  imbibed  with  each  breath.  And  if  a  few  people  still  feel  it,  then  after 
the  breathing  exercises  just  give  a  sponge  massage  with  a  wet  towel.  Do  it  seven  times 
and  from  the  top  of  the  spine  to  the  root.  When  you  touch  them  with  the  towel,  they  have 
to  think  that  the  energy  is  moving  into  the  whole  body  and  that  the  body  is  getting  its 
quota.  That  will  relax  the  energy  in  the  body  again. 

When  the  body  energy  moves  into  the  spine  too  much,  then  the  other  parts  of  the  body 
miss  that  energy.  That  creates  discomfort  and  pain.  So  if  a  person  goes  on  doing  it  for 
years,  there  is  no  problem  —  the  body  adjusts  —  but  in  a  small  group  for  ten  or  fifteen 
days,  it  cannot  adjust.  So  you  have  to  do  something.  With  this  massage,  both  problems 
will  disappear.  But  continue  —  it  will  help  the  whole  group  go  deeper. 

[Osho  said  that  it  would  be  good  if  she  made  recordings  of  instructions  in  different 
languages  as  soon  more  and  more  people  would  be  coming  from  places  like  Japan  and 
Korea  and  other  countries,  and  they  would  need  to  be  able  to  participate  in  groups. 

He  said  that  within  a  month  the  food  situation  would  be  changed,  and  the  food  would  be 
more  pure,  which  was  necessary  to  help  people  go  deeply  into  the  processes.] 


[A  sannyasin  said  he  had  trouble  in  astral  travelling:  I  have  a  little  problem.  When  I'm 
leaving  the  body  I  feel  anguish  and  fear,  so  I  pull  back  into  my  body.] 


It  is  natural.  It  is  the  fear  of  death.  That  is  what  happens  in  death.  And  it  has  happened 
many  times  to  you  in  your  past  lives,  so  your  mind  knows  about  it.  It  is  actually  the 
process  of  death,  so  fear  is  natural  and  nothing  to  be  worried  about.  It  will  go  by  and  by. 
The  more  you  go  into  it,  the  more  courageous  you  will  become. 

The  only  way  to  learn  swimming  is  to  throw  yourself  into  the  water.  First  you  move  your 
hands  haphazardly.  By  and  by  you  start  moving  them  more  skilfully.  And  nobody  is 
drowned  because  buoyancy  is  natural  to  the  body.  People  are  drowned  because  of  fear, 
not  because  of  water.  That's  why  dead  bodies  float  on  the  water  and  are  not  drowned.  If 
you  can  simply  trust  the  water,  you  will  float. 

So  simply  go  into  it...  try  it.  Every  night  before  you  go  to  sleep,  have  a  ten-minute  trip  out 
of  the  body.  Just  practice  will  make  you  courageous.  And  you  can  do  it  very  easily  — 
that's  why  you  are  so  afraid.  People  who  cannot  do  it  are  not  so  afraid.  People  who  cannot 
do  it,  who  simply  imagine  that  they  are  going  out  of  the  body,  will  not  get  afraid  because 
they  are  simply  imagining;  they  know  that  they  are  imagining.  But  you  really  go,  so  that's 
why  you  become  so  scared.  It  is  natural. 

An  out-of-the-body  experience  is  such  a  drastic  one.  Coming  out  of  the  body  is 
disorienting  for  the  whole  system  of  your  body.  It  happens  only  in  death  or  in  such 
methods.  But  these  methods  can  bring  you  to  a  great  realisation.  Once  you  become  skilful 
in  going  out  and  coming  in,  then  you  know  that  there  is  no  death.  Then  you  have  come  to 
know  your  own  deathlessness.  So  it  is  worth  it;  whatsoever  the  cost,  it  is  worth  it. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #19 
Chapter  title:  None 

8  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609085 
ShortTitle:  PASSI019 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

Deva  means  divine,  nirvesha  means  enjoyment,  joy,  bliss,  happiness,  divine  joy. 

And  to  me,  all  joy  is  divine.  Joy  as  such  is  divine.  If  one  can  be  joyful,  one  is  in  prayer. 
Then  there  is  no  need  to  do  any  other  prayer.  Then  you  are  constantly  offering  yourself  to 
God.  We  cannot  offer  anything  else. 

In  misery  we  are  cut  off  from  God  closed,  separated,  isolated.  In  joy  we  are  overflowing, 
relinked,  reconnected.  In  joy  we  are  offering  our  being.  So  joy  is  divine.  Not  to  be  joyful 
is  to  be  irreligious.  So  if  you  can  do  one  thing,  everything  will  follow.  Just  be  ecstatically 
joyful,  and  for  it,  no  condition  is  needed.  You  need  not  be  rich  to  be  joyful. 

For  instance,  there  are  people  who  are  very  rich  and  absolutely  joyless.  And  there  are 
beggars  who  are  full  of  joy.  You  need  not  be  very  famous  to  be  joyful.  In  fact,  you  need 
nothing  to  be  joyful.  It  is  just  a  different  attitude.  No  physical  condition  is  needed  for  it. 
No  social  status  is  needed  for  it.  Nobody  else  is  needed  for  it.  It  is  just  your  attitude,  your 
decision,  your  commitment,  that  now  you  decide  to  be  joyful.  If  you  decide,  you  will  be  - 
-  because  you  become,  finally,  your  decision. 


So  I  give  you  the  name  to  make  it  a  constant  remembrance.  And  start  being  joyful  for  no 
reason  at  aU.  Even  when  you  have  no  reason,  just  be  joyful.  Joyfulness  should  be  like 
breathing.  You  go  on  breathing  while  walking,  sitting,  eating,  sleeping;  it  does  not 
depend  on  anything  else.  If  you  are  alive  you  go  on  breathing.  With  joy,  there  is  only  one 
difference:  even  if  you  are  dead,  you  can  be  joyful,  though  you  cannot  breathe.  So  they 
are  absolutely  similar,  except  for  one  thing.  Breathing  continues  while  you  are  alive.  Ill, 
healthy,  successful,  a  failure,  frustrated,  young,  old,  respected,  condemned,  breathing 
continues.  Sinner  or  saint,  breathing  continues. 

Joy  is  just  like  breathing.  It  goes  a  little  deeper  than  breathing,  because  it  continues  even 
when  you  are  dead.  If  you  can  learn  how  to  remain  joyful,  you  are  learning  something 
which  is  deathless.  Or  let  me  say  it  this  way  —  breathing  is  a  must  for  the  body,  joy  is  a 
must  for  the  soul.  Breathing  is  the  elan  vital  for  the  body,  joy  is  the  elan  vital  for  your 
soul.  When  breathing  stops,  you  say  'This  man  is  a  corpse  now.'  When  joy  stops  this  man 
has  no  soul.  And  that's  why  you  see  so  many  corpses  —  joyless  people,  dry...  not  even  an 
oasis  but  just  deserts  and  deserts. 

Our  cities  are  full  of  dead  people.  The  whole  earth  is  full  of  dead  people.  Be  a  light 
among  these  dead.  Be  joyful  among  these  people  who  are  joyless  —  and  don't  feel  guilty. 
That  is  the  problem:  because  so  many  people  are  joyless,  one  starts  feeling  guilty  that  one 
is  so  joyful...  that  one  is  having  something  that  others  are 
missing. 

This  is  something  to  be  understood.  Whenever  people  start  feeling  happy,  they 
immediately  start  feeling  guilt  arising  by  the  side,  because  how  can  they  feel  joyful  when 
the  whole  world  is  so  miserable?  I'm  not  saying  don't  consider  others.  I  am  saying  that 
you  have  to  be  joyful  even  when  the  whole  world  is  in  misery.  By  being  joyful  you  can 
help  other  people  to  come  out  of  their  misery.  By  being  joyful  you  can  become  an 
example.  The  world  needs  a  few  joyful  people,  a  few  dancing  energies,  so  that  others  can 
feel  that  there  is  a  possibility.  Death  is  not  the  only  way  to  live.  One  can  live 
tremendously  alive  also. 

Hence  I  am  creating  these  sannyasins.  Hence  I  am  giving  you  sannyas.  This  is  just  to 
make  you  a  joyful  example.  So  wherever  you  go,  let  this  message  be  spread  —  that  man 
need  not  be  misera-ble,  that  joy  is  our  birthright.  If  we  don't  claim  it,  nobody  else  is 
responsible  except  ourselves.  It  has  to  be  claimed.  By  creating  sannyasins  I  am  hoping  to 
create  a  few  dancing  people.  Through  their  dance,  their  festivity,  their  joy  and  their 
feasting,  they  will  celebrate  God  on  earth. 

Enough  of  the  church  and  enough  of  seriousness,  of  long  faces.  They  have  killed  God. 
Theologians,  missionaries,  priests  —  these  people  with  long  faces  —  are  the  real  criminals. 
They  have  all  killed  joy.  They  have  made  everybody  guilty.  They  have  postponed  joy  for 
the  future  life. They  say  'Joy  is  not  possible  here.  You  have  to  earn  it.  Be  virtuous  and  joy 
will  come  about  as  a  result.' 

It  is  all  nonsense,  rot.  Joy  is  a  simple  quality  of  life.  You  need  not  be  virtuous.  On  the 
contrary,  joy  will  make  you  virtuous,  because  I  cannot  see  a  person  who  is  really  happy 
doing  anything  wrong.  Only  miserable  people  do  wrong  things.  Miserable  people  become 
destructive.  They  are  angry  people.  They  are  in  much  frustration.  They  cannot  respect 
life.  What  has  life  done  to  them?  Why  should  they  respect  it?  They  live  in  such  misery 
that  they  take  revenge. 


To  be  miserable  is  to  sow  the  seeds  of  sin.  To  be  joyful  is  to  become  virtuous.  Joy  is  the 
only  virtue. 

So  I  teach  joy.  Be  happy,  and  you  will  see  many  virtues  arising  that  were  not  there 
before.  You  become  more  truthful,  you  become  more  honest.  You  become  more  loving. 
You  become  more  intense  in  every  thing  you  do.  A  passion  arises.  And  whatsoever  you 
touch  with  your  joy  becomes  gold.  You  become  alchemical.  Not  only  does  your  life 
change  from  baser  metals  to  higher  ones,  but  whomsoever  comes  in  contact  with  you 
immediately  feels  a  thrill.  So  be  thrilled  and  thrill  others. 

Becoming  a  sannyasin  is  a  commitment  for  joy.  Becoming  a  sannyasin  is  a  discipline  to 
be  joyful.  So,  misery  I  call  sin,  and  joy  I  call  virtue.  So  I  insist  for  joy.  I  don't  insist  for 
virtue  because  virtue  is  an  outcome,  a  natural  by-product. 

[To  a  new  sannyasin.] 

Much  is  going  to  happen  —  you  are  ready  for  many  things.  Just  relax  and  surrender, 
because  there  are  things  which  cannot  be  done  by  willpower.  There  are  things  which 
cannot  be  willed  at  all.  The  more  you  will  them,  the  further  away  they  are. 

And  these  are  the  real  things  in  life  —  love,  beauty,  truth,  bliss,  God.  You  have  to  give 
way...  you  have  to  just  relax  and  allow.  You  have  to  become  passive  and  receptive.  They 
happen  only  in  a  feminine  state  of  mind. 

Whenever  you  are  doing  something,  there  is  bound  to  be  a  tension,  and  that  tension  does 
not  allow  you  to  melt.  When  you  are  doing  something,  there  is  bound  to  be  expectation, 
and  that  expectation  does  not  allow  you  to  relax.  When  you  are  doing  something  there  is 
bound  to  be  some  conflict,  a  struggle  with  the  whole,  as  if  you  have  some  private  idea  of 
your  own.  So  here,  just  allow  things  to  happen.  Meditate  —  and  that  too  has  to  be  done  in 
such  a  way  that  you  don't  will  it.  Simply  be  there  and  let  it  happen. 

Learn  by  and  by  how  to  allow  things  to  happen.  Don't  be  aggressive  —  be  receptive.  Don't 
try  to  grab  anything  —  just  wait  for  your  time  to  come.  And  existence  is  very  just;  there  is 
no  injustice.  You  get  whatsoever  you  deserve;  it  never  happens  otherwise.  So  one  can 
make  much  fuss  but  nothing  will  happen.  One  can  simply  sit  and  wait  —  and  everything  is 
possible.  For  the  right  moment,  for  the  right  ripening,  one  has  to  wait.  And  one  never 
knows....  It  is  unpredictable.  God  is  absolutely  unpredictable.  There  is  no  way  to  know 
His  ways.  His  ways  are  mysterious. 

So  one  can  simply  trust.  Just  meditate,  be  here  patiently,  and  more  than  listening,  be,  feel. 
And  your  energy  is  really  flowing.  You  are  not  frozen  in  any  way  —  your  energy  is 
streaming.  Things  will  come  to  you  very  easily.  Your  path  is  easy;  it  is  not  going  to  be 
hard.  When  people  are  very  frozen,  the  path  is  very  hard,  because  they  are  like  rocks  and 
the  melting  is  very  difficult.  To  melt  a  rock,  a  very  high  temperature  is  needed.  But  you 
are  like  a  river  —  there  is  no  problem.  So  just  flow  with  me.  Good. 

[The  Encounter  group,  present  tonight. 

A  group  member  said:  I  had  a  lot  of  good  experiences,  especially  with  sex.  But  now  I'm 
stuck. 

Yesterday  I  felt  a  lot  of  negative  energy,  and  a  lot  of  hate  and  destructiveness.  I  feel  that  I 
want  to  destroy  and  I  don't  allow  myself  to  do  it.] 


Destructiveness  is  itself  not  bad.  It  can  be  used  in  a  very  creative  way.  In  fact  nobody  can 
drop  destructiveness.  The  only  difference  between  a  creative  person  and  a  destructive 
person  is  of  emphasis. 

The  destructive  person  is  only  interested  in  destruction.  Sometimes  even  if  he  creates 
something,  he  creates  it  to  destroy  it.  If  he  makes  a  friendship,  deep  down  he  only  makes 
it  to  destroy  it.  His  pleasure  is  in  destruction.  Destruction  is  his  goal.  If  he  falls  in  love,  he 
knows  deep  down  that  it  is  just  to  destroy  something.  How  can  you  destroy  love  if  it  is 
not  there?  First  you  have  to  create  it  to  destroy  it. 

The  creative  person  has  as  much  destructiveness  as  the  destructive  person,  but  the 
emphasis  is  around  the  other  way.  He  destroys  things  to  create.  You  have  to  demolish  the 
old  if  you  want  to  create  the  new.  You  have  to  destroy  many  things  if  you  are  really 
creative  because  there  is  no  creativity  without  destruction.  So  a  creative  person  is  not 
without  destructiveness.  He  uses  destructiveness  as  a  means  towards  creation,  that  is  the 
only  difference.  Both  have  both  the  qualities. 

So  don't  think  that  destructiveness  is  something  wrong.  You  have  to  learn  how  to  use  it.  It 
is  a  beautiful  thing.  The  greater  the  creativity,  the  greater  will  be  the  destructiveness, 
because  how  can  you  create  the  new  if  you  don't  destroy  the  old?  But  you  have  to  find 
ways  how  to  use  it  in  creative  ways. 

It  is  a  great  force.  Channelized,  it  can  become  beautiful.  Allow  it  to  remain  in  chaos  and 
it  can  become  suicidal,  because  the  ultimate  result  is  to  destroy  oneself.  How  long  can 
you  go  on  destroying  other  things?  One  day  the  final  result  will  come  —  you  will  destroy 
yourself.  In  fact  you  are  getting  ready  for  it.  You  destroy  this  and  that  —  this  relationship, 
that  friendship,  that  person,  this  love  —  and  one  day  you  are  simply  fed  up  with  all  this. 
Now  you  want  to  destroy  the  final  thing  —  yourself.  That's  why  people  become  suicidal. 
So  I  am  not  against  destructiveness,  but  I  am  certainly  for  creativity.  You  have  to  harness 
all  your  destructiveness  into  some  creative  activity.  You  have  many  things  which  are 
needed  to  be  destroyed.  There  is  jealousy  —  destroy  it.  There  is  hatred  —  destroy  it.  There 
is  aggression  —  destroy  it.  There  is  anger  —  destroy  it.  There  is  possessiveness  —  destroy 
it.  These  are  all  there.  And  you  will  become  a  Buddha  if  you  destroy  all  these  things. 

You  have  enough  to  destroy.  If  the  fire  is  there,  use  it;  burn  all  these  things.  And  out  of 
each  destruction,  you  will  find  a  new  release  of  energy...  a  tremendous  upsurge  of  energy. 
If  you  can  destroy  jealousy,  kill  it,  and  you  will  see  such  beautiful  energies  arising  in  you. 
Love  becomes  so  easy  if  you  can  destroy  jealousy;  otherwise  jealousy  destroys  love.  If 
you  destroy  hate,  suddenly  you  have  so  much  love  that  you  become  unconditional.  You 
don't  bother  about  whether  the  person  is  worthy  of  love  or  not.  Who  bothers  when  you 
have  too  much  to  give?  You  simply  give  and  you  feel  grateful  that  he  accepted. 

As  I  see,  you  have  much  responsibility  to  be  creative.  Maybe  that  is  the  reason  that  you 
are  feeling  so  destructive.  Use  it  before  it  drives  you  mad.  And  don't  be  against  it. 
Remember  it  is  just  energy. 

The  same  fire  which  can  bum  the  house,  goes  on  cooking  for  you.  The  fire  that  becomes 
light  and  warmth,  can  kill  you;  it  is  the  same  fire.  You  have  energy  —  you  just  need 
direction.  And  your  sannyas  is  going  to  be  creative,  so  don't  be  worried. 

[The  group  leader  comments:  She  has  been  more  contented  when  negative  things  are 
happening  in  the  group.  Sometimes  she  allows  her  energy  to  flow,  but  generally  if  things 
are  positive  she  gets  very  uncomfortable.] 


Mm,  it  is  because  she  does  not  know  how  to  live  in  a  positive  energy  field.  So  help  her  to 
release  the  negativity.  When  she  is  enjoying  the  negativity,  help  her  to  release  it.  Take  her 
to  the  very  end  of  it,  because  that  is  the  only  way  to  change.  One  should  go  to  the  very 
end  of  it,  then  the  pendulum  swings  back. 

[to  the  participant]  You  cannot  return  from  half  way.  If  you  do,  there  will  be  a  hangover; 
you  will  feel  very  uncomfortable.  You  may  have  been  feeling  angry,  and  somehow  you 
manage  not  to  go  into  it.  You  may  not  express  anger,  but  it  will  spread  all  over  your 
being.  It  will  circulate  in  your  blood.  It  will  move  in  your  breathing.  It  will  poison  you 
and  it  will  poison  everything  that  you  touch.  It  is  better  to  go  into  it  wholeheartedly,  to 
finish  it.  Then  it  is  finished  sooner  and  you  come  out  of  it  purer  than  before. 

[to  the  leader]  So  just  lead  her  deep  into  negativity.  These  two  days,  help  her  to  go  as  far 
as  she  can;  don't  try  to  bring  her  back.  Push  her  to  the  very  end,  to  the  very  extreme,  to 
the  very  precipice,  so  she  herself  sees  where  she  is  going  and  what  the  outcome  can  be  if 
she  goes  on  moving.  Then  her  own  mind  will  recoil.  When  you  see  that  she  herself  is 
moving  back,  then  give  her  a  positive  experience.  She  will  enjoy  it. 

In  fact,  she  has  been  carrying  negativity  for  many  days  and  she  wants  to  release  it,  so 
whenever  there  is  a  negative  situation,  she  feels  good.  It  fits  her,  and  then  she  can  also  be 
negative.  It  happens  ....  If  you  are  carrying  some  violence  and  you  cannot  do  anything 
with  it,  just  seeing  a  murder  on  the  TV,  something  is  released  in  you.  That's  why  people 
see  so  many  murder  films,  read  so  many  detective  novels.  It  is  their  violence.  They 
wanted  to  do  such  things  but  they  have  prevented  themselves;  they  were  too  dangerous, 
too  risky.  So  they  identify  with  a  movie  or  the  TV  or  a  story.  Or  moving  in  the  road  and 
two  people  are  fighting,  a  crowd  gathers.  The  crowd  is  not  interested  in  any  way  in  the 
people  —  the  crowd  is  interested  in  violence.  You  may  have  seen  that  if  somehow  the 
fight  subsides,  then  the  crowd  moves  away  very  frustrated.  They  wanted  to  see  something 
happen,  and  nothing  did. 

When  you  look  at  the  newspaper  in  the  morning,  you  are  very  eager  to  see  whether 
something  has  happened  or  not,  whether  people  have  been  killed  or  war  has  broken  out. 

If  nothing  has  happened,  you  feel  a  little  frustrated  —  there  is  no  news.  Otherwise  people 
feel  thrilled. 

So  when  there  is  negativity  in  the  group,  The  participant  must  be  feeling  thrilled;  she  will 
feel  very  enhanced.  She  wanted  to  do  these  things  and  she  has  not  been  able.  But  don't  let 
her  be  a  spectator;  that  is  not  going  to  help.  She  has  been  doing  that  for  her  whole  life. 
Force  her  to  be  a  participant. 

[to  the  group  member]  And  you  remember  it  too.  Participate.  If  you  enjoy  anger, 
participate  in  it.  What  is  wrong  in  it?  That  is  the  whole  point  of  the  group  —  to  bring  out 
whatsoever  is  there.  If  you  want  to  beat,  then  beat  the  pillow. 

...  Do  something  destructive.  It  can  be  done;  there  is  no  problem.  Ways  and  means  can  be 
found.  You  can  have  a  knife  and  kill  the  pillow  —  really  kill  it.  Get  into  the  passion  of 
killing  —  it  will  help.  That's  the  whole  process  of  Encounter  —  that  whatsoever  is  there 
has  to  be  brought  out.  Once  something  comes  to  the  conscious  mind,  its  poison  will  not 
affect  you  any  more.  Unconscious,  it  is  dangerous.  Conscious,  the  danger  is  over. 
Otherwise  you  are  like  a  puppet  being  pulled  by  the  strings  of  the  unconscious.  Bring 
these  things  to  light.  Then  even  the  puppet  starts  laughing  and  seeing  that  it  is  ridiculous: 

'I  have  been  under  the  influence,  under  the  slavery  of  my  own  repressed  emotions.'  Then 


enough  is  enough.  So  bring  it  totally  to  the  conscious.  It  is  going  to  go.  You  have  come  to 
me  —  you  cannot  remain  destructive  for  long. 

[A  group  member  says:  I  feel  like  I  have  a  huge  collection  of  masks. 

The  group  leader  comments:  When  nobody's  looking  at  him,  he  melts  a  little,  but  as  soon 
as  he  gets  any  attention,  he  fights.  Whatsoever  is  said  to  him  he  sees  as  a  judgement 
against  him. 

Osho  checks  the  group  member's  energy.] 

There  is  not  a  very  big  problem.  You  don't  have  many  masks. 

[to  the  leader]  He  has  only  one  mask  —  that's  why  he's  so  protective.  He  has  a  very  thin 
mask,  so  the  moment  you  give  attention  to  him,  he  holds  on  to  it  because  he  only  has  one. 
It  is  a  poor  man's  mask.  If  one  has  many  masks,  one  does  not  bother  —  if  one  falls, 
another  is  there.  Even  if  that  goes,  another  is  there.  There  are  layers  upon  layers,  so  who 
bothers?  But  he  has  a  very  thin  mask.  If  it  is  gone,  it  is  gone,  so  he  clings  with  it 
tremendously.  But  there  is  nothing  to  be  worried  about. 

For  these  two  days,  put  him  in  the  centre  and  give  him  as  much  attention  as  possible.  He 
has  not  got  much  attention  in  his  childhood.  He  has  not  been  loved.  He  has  not  felt 
warmth  in  the  world.  He  has  felt  neglected,  rejected.  He  has  felt  as  if  he  is  a  burden.  He 
has  felt  as  if  he  has  to  make  his  own  life  and  nobody  is  going  to  help  him.  He  feels 
helpless,  so  he's  continuously  afraid.  If  his  face  is  gone,  he  will  be  nowhere.  He  will  be 
just  empty. 

So  just  be  more  loving  towards  him  and  he  will  become  so  easily  nude,  he  will  drop  it  so 
easily  that  he  will  be  surprised.  But  pay  him  attention  and  be  more  loving  towards  him. 
He  needs  attention,  he  needs  warmth.  And  he  will  explode.  Within  these  two  days  you 
will  see  a  transformation  happening  in  him. 

[to  the  participant]  You  don't  have  much  to  lose  —  that's  why  you  are  so  afraid.  So  don't 
be  worried.  Just  do  these  two  days,  mm? 

[A  sannyasin  says:  It's  just  hard  to  crack  open,  to  let  go...  to  let  anything  out. 

The  leader  comments:  There  seems  to  be  a  lot  of  softness  inside.  My  guess  is  that  he  is 
really  afraid  of  that  softness.] 

[The  leader]  may  be  right.  The  problem  does  not  seem  to  be  that  you  are  hard  inside  — 
but  you  are  clever;  that's  why  you  are  not  cracking.  You  are  not  hard;  [the  leader]  is  right. 
You  are  soft  inside,  but  you  are  very  clever,  so  your  cleverness  is  functioning  as  a 
hardness.  It  does  not  allow  anything  to  enter.  You  rationalise.  You  are  more  of  a  thinker. 
The  heart  is  very  soft  but  nothing  reaches  it. 

The  soil  is  very  soft  but  the  seed  has  to  reach  it,  otherwise  it  will  not  sprout.  The 
cleverness  simply  does  not  allow  it.  It  is  working  like  a  guard  on  the  gate;  it  does  not 
allow  it  to  enter.  You  are  very  calculating,  clever,  intelligent  —  that  is  your  problem. 
Hardness  of  the  heart  is  not  the  problem. 

So  just  do  one  thing  —  start  doing  a  few  foolish  things,  [to  the  leader]  Give  him  a  few 
foolish  things  to  do...  ridiculous  things. 


[The  group  member  said:  He's  already  done  that.] 


But  you  must  have  been  rationalising  it.  You  need  really  foolish  things;  that  will  relax 
you.  Your  head  needs  to  be  forced  into  such  foolishness  that  it  stops  cleverness.  When  it 
sees  that  there  is  no  point  in  being  clever,  that  this  whole  thing  is  just  mad,  then  it  will 
allow  it. 

But  it  will  happen.  The  basic  foolishness  has  already  happened  —  that  you  have  become  a 
sannyasin  [laughter].  Now  it  is  just  a  question  of  time.  Once  the  mind  is  not  on  guard,  the 
thing  will  happen.  It  is  only  a  question  of  it  happening  once. 

Once  you  have  a  glimpse  of  your  soft  heart,  you  will  never  listen  to  the  mind  because 
then  it  is  just  unnecessarily  wasting  a  precious  life.  All  that  is  beautiful  happens  through 
the  heart.  The  mind  is  a  servant  pretending  to  be  the  master.  The  heart  is  the  master,  but 
such  a  humble  master  that  it  never  claims  it...  such  a  good  master  that  even  if  he  feels  that 
the  servant  is  sitting  on  the  throne,  he  says  'Okay  —  let  him  enjoy.  There  is  nothing  wrong 
in  it.'  So  the  servant  has  become  more  and  more  confident.  By  and  by  it  has  usurped  that 
throne.  It  does  not  bother  about  the  real  master.  In  fact,  it  had  completely  forgotten  the 
real  master.  It  thinks  it  is  the  master. 

Once  you  can  have  a  glimpse,  the  whole  thing  will  change.  Then  the  passage  will  be 
open.  But  I  am  here  —  don't  be  worried.  Whenever  there  is  a  moment  of  foolishness  in 
these  two  days,  try  to  get  into  it.  In  these  two  days,  just  get  out  of  the  categories  of  the 
mind.  Do  a  few  foolish  things  —  anything  that  comes  on  the  spur  of  the  moment; 
anything,  I  am  saying.  If  you  suddenly  feel  like  standing  naked  and  dancing,  do  it  and  see 
what  happens  —  just  on  the  spur  of  the  moment.  Let  people  think  that  you  have  gone  a 
little  crazy. 

If  you  can  enjoy  a  little  craziness,  everything  will  be  put  right.  A  little  craziness  is 
medicinal  for  you.  That's  my  prescription  for  the  time  being.  Then  we  will  see!  [laughter] 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #20 
Chapter  title:  None 

9  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609095 
ShortTitle:  PASSIO20 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[To  a  sannyasin,  whose  son  had  just  been  initiated  into  sannyas,  Osho  said  that  one 
should  respect  one's  child,  and  that  now  her  son  was  a  sannyasin,  she  should  regard  him 
as  a  brother... 

A  child  is  born  to  you,  but  he  does  not  belong  to  you.  Always  remember  that  he  has  come 
through  you.  He  has  chosen  you  as  a  passage,  but  he  has  his  own  destiny. 

So  giving  him  sannyas  does  not  mean  that  you  have  to  structure  him.  You  are  not  to  force 
anything  on  him.  Sannyas  is  freedom,  so  give  him  freedom  to  be  himself,  and  be  alert  not 
to  impose  anything.  Love  him  as  much  as  you  can,  but  don't  give  your  thoughts  to  him. 
When  you  meditate,  just  persuade  him  to  be  with  you.  Sometimes  dance  with  him. 


And  children  can  go  into  meditation  very  easily  —  one  just  has  to  know  how  to  help  them 
towards  it.  They  cannot  be  coerced;  that's  impossible.  Nobody  can  ever  be  coerced  into 
meditation,  because  coercion  is  violence.  How  can  one  coerce  meditation?  It  comes  when 
it  comes.  But  you  can  persuade. 

You  can  just  invite  him  with  tremendous  respect.  Dance  with  him,  sing  with  him,  sit  in 
silence  with  him.  By  and  by  he  will  start  imbibing  it.  By  and  by  he  will  start  enjoying  the 
play  of  it.  It  cannot  be  a  work  for  him.  It  cannot  be  a  serious  thing  for  him  —  it  should  not 
be  for  anybody.  It  can  only  be  a  play.  So  help  him  to  play  meditation...  Let  it  be  a  game. 
Make  it  a  game  with  him,  and  by  and  by  he  will  start  loving  it.  He  will  start  asking  you 
'When  are  we  going  to  play  meditation?'  And  once  he  starts  learning  some  ways  of 
silence,  then  meditation  has  started  working  on  him,  and  one  day  you  will  see  that  he  is 
deeper  in  meditation  than  you  had  ever  expected.  So  you  have  to  make  a  meditative 
atmosphere. 

To  make  somebody  a  Christian  is  easy.  You  have  just  to  impose  a  certain  ideology,  a 
catechism.  You  have  to  teach  him  that  God  is  a  trinity,  and  that  Jesus  is  God's  son  and 
things  like  that,  which  can  be  learnt  very  easily,  and  which  are  very  destructive,  because 
the  person  will  never  be  free  to  explore.  These  prejudices  will  always  be  there. 

So  when  I  give  sannyas  to  a  child,  it  is  not  that  you  have  to  impose  an  ideology  on  him. 
You  have  just  to  persuade  him  towards  meditativeness.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  any 
ideology  —  Christian,  hindu,  mohammedan;  they  are  all  irrelevant.  It  is  more  like  love...  it 
is  a  feeling.  And  if  he  can  learn  something  of  it,  then  it  starts  growing  on  its  own.  One 
day  he  will  be  grateful  for  it  —  that  you  helped  him.  Right  now  he  cannot  understand,  so 
the  whole  responsibility  is  yours. 

And  this  is  my  observation  —  that  if  grownups  are  a  little  more  meditative,  children 
imbibe  the  spirit  very  easily.  They  are  so  sensitive.  They  learn  whatsoever  is  there  in  the 
atmosphere;  they  learn  the  vibe  of  it.  They  never  bother  about  what  you  say.  What  you 
are  —  they  always  respect  that.  And  they  have  a  very  deep  perceptivity,  a  clarity,  an 
intuitiveness.  You  may  be  smiling  but  they  will  immediately  know  that  it  is  false,  because 
your  eyes  will  be  saying  something  else  —  and  even  more  than  that,  your  whole  body  will 
be  saying  something  else,  your  gesture  will  be  saying  something  else  —  that  you  are 
angry,  that  you  are  just  pretending,  that  it  is  just  a  policy. 

They  may  not  be  able  to  formulate  it  in  so  many  words,  but  they  immediately  feel  it.  So 
never  be  untrue  with  children  because  they  will  immediately  know  it.  And  once  a  child 
comes  to  know  that  his  parents  are  untrue,  his  whole  trust  is  lost.  That  is  his  first  trust  in 
life,  his  very  base,  and  if  that  is  lost  he  will  become  a  sceptic.  Then  he  cannot  trust 
anybody.  He  cannot  trust  life,  he  cannot  trust  God,  because  those  are  very  far  away 
things.  Even  the  father  deceived,  even  the  mother  deceived;  even  they  were  not  reliable, 
so  what  to  say  of  anything  else  now? 

Once  a  child  learns...  and  every  child  is  going  to  learn;  it  is  impossible  to  deceive  a  child. 
There  is  no  method  discovered  up  to  now  on  how  to  deceive  a  child.  He  simply  knows 
where  you  are,  who  you  are.  It  is  intuitive  —  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  his  intellect.  In  fact, 
the  more  intellectual  he  will  become,  the  more  he  will  lose  this  intuitiveness,  and  he  will 
not  be  able  to  see  things  as  they  are.  Right  now  a  child  is  immediate.  He  simply  looks 
through  and  through.  He  looks  at  you  and  you  are  transparent.  So  never  be  deceptive. 


[Osho  went  on  to  reiterate  what  he  had  said  to  a  sannyasin  at  a  previous  darshan  (see 
Dance  Your  Way  to  God,  August  29th,  1976)  —  that  one  should  not  pretend  to  be  a  god, 
but  should  express  anger  if  that's  what  one  was  feeling;  even  to  hit  if  necessary,  but  to  hit 
warmly.] 

Love  him  and  allow  him  to  be  a  little  meditative,  and  much  is  possible. 

That's  why  I  say  it  is  a  great  responsibility  you  have  taken  upon  yourself.  I  cannot  give 
him  sannyas  directly.  It  is  through  you,  via  you.  So  now  you  have  to  take  care  of  two 
sannyasins  —  yourself  and  him. 

Deva  means  divine  and  koorvita  means  skill  —  divine  skill.  And  that's  how  I  see  every 
human  being  —  as  having  a  deep  skill  to  be  divine.  One  may  refine  it  or  not:  one  may 
become  a  great  artist  in  it,  or  one  may  leave  it  undeveloped  and  crude.  It  is  like  a  rock, 
but  a  little  work  and  it  can  become  a  beautiful  statue.  That  skill  is  everybodys 
potentiality,  but  very  few  people  develop  it,  and  it  cannot  be  developed  on  its  own. 
Everybody  is  born  with  it,  but  millions  of  people  never  use  it,  so  the  faculty  goes  on 
shrinking;  it  remains  a  seed  and  never  sprouts.  Just  a  little  work  towards  it  and  much  is 
the  payoff,  tremendous  is  the  benefit.  And  there  is  no  greater  skill  than  that.  One  may  be 
a  poet,  but  then  there  are  only  a  few  seconds  in  the  life  of  a  poet  which  are  beautiful, 
otherwise  he  crawls  on  the  earth  like  everybody  else.  One  can  be  a  painter,  but  only  a  few 
moments  are  there  —  rare  and  far  apart  —  where  there  are  glimpses  of  the  un-known.  They 
come  and  go;  they  don't  last.  The  painter  is  back  on  the  earth  again  —  and  more  miserable 
than  ever. 

That  is  the  misery  of  great  artists,  because  they  have  something  to  compare.  They  have 
known  a  few  moments  when  they  were  no  more  of  this  earth.  They  have  known  a  few 
moments  when  they  were  part  of  the  stars.  They  have  known  a  few  moments  when  there 
was  depth  and  height  and  they  were  expansive...  when  everything  was  totally  different, 
was  a  benediction.  Then  they  are  thrown  back  again  and  again.  They  don't  know  what  to 
do.  Back  on  earth  they  are  more  miserable,  and  the  darkness  is  far  darker. 

When  you  know  a  few  moments  of  happiness,  your  unhappiness  becomes  very  very 
penetrating;  you  can  compare.  So  all  great  artists  have  a  few  moments  of  what  I  call  the 
divine.  They  live  in  misery,  they  live  in  a  nightmare;  they  are  almost  on  the  verge  of 
becoming  mad. 

So  all  other  talents  are  just  partial  talents.  There  is  only  one  talent  which  is  total  and 
whole  —  and  that  is  the  talent  to  become  divine.  And  if  you  develop  it  a  little,  it  remains 
with  you.  Then  whatsoever  you  do  it  is  there,  silently,  like  a  shadow  surrounding  you, 
engulfing  you...  like  a  glow  following  you.  It  becomes  your  golden  aura. 

And  I  can  see  that  you  can  develop  it  very  easily.  The  effort  is  not  going  to  be  arduous. 
But  daring  and  courage  will  be  needed  because  it  is  like  death.  To  be  in  the  divine,  one 
has  to  die  —  die  to  the  past,  die  to  all  that  you  have  been.  Become  as  empty  as  possible, 
because  only  in  emptiness  is  that  benediction.  Only  when  you  are  empty,  suddenly  you 
become  full.  On  one  side  you  are  empty,  on  another  side  something  is  penetrating  you 
and  filling  you.  It  is  a  death  and  a  resurrection. 

Much  is  possible,  but  one  has  to  be  an  adventurer. 


[A  visitor  says:  The  meditations  are  going  very  deep.] 


Very  good!  You  have  been  getting  ready  for  many  lives.  This  will  be  your  name  .... 
Forget  the  past  as  if  it  were  never  there,  and  begin  anew  from  ABC  as  if  you  are  born 
today.  It  is  a  rebirth.  You  don't  have  any  history  from  now  onwards.  And  count  your  life 
as  from  today.  Next  year  you  will  be  only  one  year.  Move  that  way,  and  also  feel  like  a 
small  child.  Soon  you  will  start  feeling  a  tremendous  blessing. 

Your  energy  is  just  vibrating,  ready  to  explode.  It  can  explode  any  moment,  so  get  ready 
for  it.  When  it  explodes,  for  the  first  time  you  will  know  what  life  is.  People  ordinarily 
cannot  even  dream  what  life  is.  They  cannot  even  imagine  it,  because  they  live  in  dead 
shells  —  windowless,  dosed,  monads. 

When  one  starts  living  in  innocence...  and  that's  what  sannyas  is  —  to  live  innocently,  to 
live  non-cleverly,  to  live  non-calculatingly,  to  live  without  mathematics,  without  logic. 
Sannyas  means  saying  goodbye  to  Aristotle...  to  live  like  a  madman,  and  to  live  intensely 
and  passionately.  And  the  first  step  is  to  drop  out  of  the  past. 

People  drop  out  of  the  society  —  that  is  not  much  of  a  help,  because  even  if  you  drop  out 
of  the  society,  you  carry  your  past  which  has  been  made,  cultivated,  conditioned  by  the 
society.  You  can  go  against  the  society  but  you  are  part  of  the  society,  sol  don't  say  drop 
out  of  the  society  —  I  say  drop  out  of  your  past.  That  is  the  real  dropping  out  of  the 
society. 

And  the  change  of  your  name  is  just  indicative  that  you  disown  your  past  —  that  now  you 
are  no  more  continuous  with  the  past.  Of  course  you  cannot  erase  it.  It  is  there,  but  more 
and  more  you  will  see  that  it  belonged  to  somebody  else,  that  it  is  as  if  you  had  dreamt 
about  it  or  you  had  seen  a  movie  or  read  a  novel.  But  you  are  totally  separate  from  it. 

This  new  name  will  help  —  Swami  Prem  Shreyas. 

Prem  means  love  and  shreyas  means  blessedness  —  blessedness  that  comes  through  love, 
the  blessing  that  comes  through  love. 

[Shreyas  said  he  would  be  leaving  for  a  time  to  undertake  a  course  in  Vipassana.  Osho 
encouraged  him  to  do  the  course  —  either  here  in  the  ashram  or  elsewhere  as  Shreyas  had 
planned,  saying  it  was  a  beautiful  form  of  meditation.] 

Doing  Vipassana  there,  do  it  as  totally  as  possible.  Put  your  whole  energy  into  it.  Don't 
do  it  lukewarm,  because  then  it  is  meaningless;  you  are  wasting  time.  Whatsoever  you 
want  to  do,  do  it  totally.  If  you  don't  want  to  do  it,  or  if  you  want  to  do  it  half-heartedly, 
never  do  it.  It  is  better  not  to  do  a  thing  than  to  do  it  half-heartedly,  because  half-hearted, 
it  is  useless.  One  starts  feeling  that  one  has  done  it  and  one  has  not  done  it  at  all. 

So  do  it  totally.  And  your  sannyas  is  going  to  help  —  half  of  the  work  is  done  already.  Go 
into  it  headlong.  Even  if  you  feel  very  uncomfortable  sometimes  ....  It  will  be  in  the 
beginning,  because  our  minds  have  been  conditioned  not  to  relax.  We  have  been  trained 
to  be  tense.  Our  whole  education  is  nothing  but  a  training  in  tension.  We  have  been 
cultivated  to  be  sceptical,  doubtful,  suspicious  —  and  all  deep  meditation  needs  trust.  So 
just  be  trusting  and  go  into  it. 

Don't  leave  any  stone  unturned;  put  your  whole  energy  into  it.  Don't  hold  anything.  The 
more  energy  you  put,  the  more  energy  will  be  coming.  Man  is  an  infinite  source  of 
energy;  you  cannot  exhaust  it.  You  will  be  given  as  much  energy  as  you  need.  Just  give  a 


challenge  to  your  life  and  you  will  be  given  energy.  It  is  not  there  already  given.  It  comes 
only  when  you  accept  a  challenge. 

If  you  want  to  become  a  runner,  you  will  have  enough  energy  to  run.  You  can  become  the 
greatest  runner  in  the  world,  because  the  potentiality  is  there.  You  may  never  try  it  — 
that's  another  thing.  Whatsoever  one  wants  to  do,  never  think  about  it  in  terms  of  whether 
one  has  enough  energy  to  do  it  or  not;  never  bother  about  it.  If  you  want  to  do  it,  your 
very  passion  will  create  energy. 

Passion  is  creative;  it  creates  energy.  So  man  can  do  whatsoever  he  wants  to  do,  is 
authentically  passionate  about.  If  you  feel  an  urgency,  the  energy  will  be  there  and  you 
will  not  be  tired.  You  will  not  feel  spent,  bored.  You  will  not  feel  'What  am  I  doing  here  - 
-  sitting  the  whole  day?  Is  it  intelligent  to  do  this  or  am  I  just  a  fool?' 

Many  times  in  Vipassana  that  idea  comes  to  people,  and  thoughts  rush  around  as  they 
have  never  rushed  before,  and  the  mind  becomes  very  muddled.  All  the  dust  of  the  ages  is 
stirred.  The  more  you  try  to  be  silent,  the  more  you  feel  you  are  distracted.  The  more 
effort  you  make  to  keep  the  mind  silent,  the  more  mad  and  crazier  it  seems  to  become  — 
rushing  in  all  directions.  But  don't  be  worried;  go  on  making  your  effort. 

[Osho  said,  as  he  has  said  before  to  sannyasins  doing  Vipassana  here,  that  after  seven 
days  the  turmoil  will  pass.  The  second  week  will  be  beautiful,  and  in  the  third  week 
problems  will  rise  again  because  by  now  one  will  have  become  greedy  for  more....  ] 

So  in  the  third  week  you  have  to  remember  not  to  ask,  not  to  expect.  Don't  carry  the 
experience  that  has  happened.  Live  through  whatsoever  happens,  and  then  drop  it.  Don't 
accumulate  it. 

Ordinarily  the  mind  tends  to  accumulate.  The  mind  is  additive;  it  goes  on  adding  and 
adding.  Whatsoever  comes,  it  goes  on  collecting,  and  then  whatsoever  is  beautiful  it 
wants  again  and  again  and  again;  it  wants  to  repeat  it.  Remember  that  after  the  second 
week,  you  will  want  many  things  to  be  repeated.  And  the  more  you  want  them,  the  more 
distant  they  will  be.  The  more  you  hanker,  the  more  you  will  feel  that  you  are  in  a 
wasteland;  no  sign  of  any  oasis  anywhere. 

So  don't  expect.  Whatsoever  has  happened,  enjoy  it  and  then  say  goodbye.  When  it 
happens,  good.  When  it  is  not  happening,  that  too  is  good.  When  it  happens,  move  with 
it,  dance  with  it,  delight  in  it.  When  it  is  not  happening,  don't  think  about  it.  Don't  look 
back,  don't  look  ahead.  Wait...  wait  without  hope,  because  whatsoever  the  mind  can  hope, 
is  going  to  be  wrong.' 

And  come  back.  I  will  be  with  you  .... 

[To  a  sannyasin  who  is  leaving.] 

Very  good.  This  time  has  been  beautiful.  Now  start  working  for  me  there.  Now  you  are 
caught  completely,  catch  others! 

Jesus  says  to  the  fishermen,  'What  are  you  doing  here?  How  Long  are  you  going  to  catch 
fish?  Come  with  me,  follow  me.  I  will  make  you  catchers  of  man.'  And  that's  exactly 
what  I  am  trying  to  do.  First  I  catch  you  and  then  I  make  you  catchers  of  man.  Now  you 
have  the  net,  so  and  throw  it  as  wide  as  possible. 


Italy  needs  much  work.  And  people  there  are  very  sensitive  —  Italy  is  one  of  the  most 
sensitive  countries  to  me.  So  you  have  to  work  there. 

This  time  your  work  will  have  a  magic  touch  —  just  start  working! 

[The  girlfriend  of  the  above  sannyasin,  who  is  also  leaving  said  she  is  too  small  to 
contain  so  much  happiness.] 

That's  right!  I  will  make  you  big!  I'm  just  afraid  of  [your  boyfriend].  If  you  become  too 
big,  he  will  be  crushed  [laughter].  But  good...  very  good. 

In  fact  it  is  so.  When  happiness  comes,  it  is  so  big  —  one  cannot  contain  it.  There  is  no 
way  to  contain  it.  It  is  always  extravagant.  It  is  so  much  it  hurts.  One  cannot  contain  it  — 
that's  why  it  becomes  a  celebration.  One  has  to  dance,  otherwise  one  will  die! 

Happiness  can  be  so  much  that  it  can  kill.  Love  can  be  so  much  that  it  kills.  And  when  it 
comes,  it  comes  as  a  tidal  wave.  It  is  wild,  and  you  cannot  prevent  it  —  it  does  not  listen. 
You  have  simply  to  go  with  it.  It  takes  you  away  from  yourself.  It  uproots  you  from 
yourself.  It  is  very  shattering,  but  it  is  tremendously  blissful  also.  It  is  destructive  and 
creative.  It  destroys  you  and  it  creates  you  again. 

When  happiness  is  there,  God  is  around  you.  It  is  like  an  arrow  which  goes  into  the  heart 
and  penetrates  deeper  and  deeper  and  deeper.  It  is  painful,  but  that  pain  is  sweet.  So  allow 
it  —  don’t  try  to  escape  from  it.  People  are  afraid  of  being  happy,  because  of  this  -  that  it 
is  so  much  and  they  cannot  manage  it,  they  cannot  control  it;  it  is  uncontrollable.  It  is 
immeasurable;  you  cannot  measure  it.  All  measurements  are  of  the  mind  —  and  it  is  not  of 
the  mind.  All  measurements  are  in  time  and  space,  and  it  is  beyond  time  and  space.  Your 
body  is  in  space,  your  mind  is  in  time,  and  happiness  is  beyond  both.  That's  why  you 
cannot  contain  it  and  you  feel,  'What  to  do?  It  is  too  much.' 

Dance  it,  sing  it...  go  mad  with  it!  Mm?  Good, 

[A  sannyasin,  who  had  done  the  Hypnotherapy  group  which  was  present  tonight,  said  she 
was  feeling  confused  —  one  moment  feeling  very  good,  another  feeling  that  she  hadn't 
opened  up  at  all  during  the  group.] 

You  may  be  expecting  too  much.  Nothing  is  going  to  happen  —  that  is  my  promise.  Be 
certain  about  it  [she  laughs]  and  then  everything  will  be  good.  Hope  for  the  best  and 
expect  the  worst.  Nothing  is  going  to  happen,  because  why  should  anything  happen? 

What  is  wrong  with  things  as  they  are?  It  is  perfectly  good.  There  is  no  need  for  anything 
to  happen  at  all.  All  that  has  to  happen  has  happened.  It  is  a  perfect  world  —  every 
moment  of  it.  It  is  so  tremendously  perfect  that  there  is  no  way  to  improve  it.  And  as  I  see 
you  all,  you  are  just  unnecessarily  chasing  your  tails. 

Enjoy  rather  than  waiting  for  the  result.  The  very  process  is  beautiful  —  not  the  goal.  The 
way  is  beautiful.  Who  bothers  about  the  goal?  The  way  is  so  lovely....  Look  at  the  trees 
by  the  side  of  the  road  and  the  birds  singing  and  the  sunrays,  and  the  hills  and  the  rivers. 
The  road  is  so  beautiful  who  bothers  about  the  result  and  the  goal,  and  whether  it  comes 
or  not?  The  journey  is  so  beautiful  that  one  would  like  it  to  be  eternally  so  —  journeying 
and  journeying  and  journeying. 


Because  people  are  not  daring,  they  start  thinking  about  the  goal.  A  goal  means  that  they 
want  to  stop.  That's  exactly  what  the  goal  means  —  that  they  want  to  stop.  They  are  fed  up 
with  the  journey.  They  want  to  sit  somewhere  in  darkness  —  that's  what  their  goal  is. 

The  process  is  beautiful.  God  is  not  a  goal.  God  is  the  way,  the  very  journey,  the  very 
process.  God  is  not  the  creator  —  He  is  the  creativity,  the  very  process  of  it. 

So  remember  this,  otherwise  you  will  be  frustrated  again  and  again.  That's  what  is 
happening.  One  moment  you  feel  good,  beautiful,  flowing.  Suddenly  the  mind  comes  in, 
the  achiever's  mind  that  says,  'Much  more  should  happen  —  this  is  nothing.'  It 
immediately  judges,  condemns  it,  compares  and  says,  'Much  more  should  happen.  You 
are  not  putting  your  whole  heart  into  it.  Go  deeper,  go  higher.  Do  something.  Much  more 
is  possible.'  Again  frustration  settles  in.  Sometimes  you  forget  your  achiever's  mind.  You 
relax,  and  then  you  have  moments  of  joy.  Then  again  the  mind  jumps  in  and  crushes  the 
beauty  of  that  moment. 

The  mind  is  poisonous.  The  mind  is  ambition.  The  mind  is  jealousy,  envy,  comparison. 
The  mind  is  a  constant  source  of  misery.  So  whenever  some  flower  is  there,  it  jumps  on 
it,  crushes  and  destroys  it.  It  tears  apart  the  petals  and  starts  analysing  it.  It  says  'This  is 
nothing.  A  bigger  flower  was  needed.'  It  is  all  nonsense!  A  flower  is  a  flower.  Big  or 
small,  enjoy  it.  The  bigger  will  come  out  of  the  enjoyment  of  the  smaller  —  not  by 
analysing  it,  destroying  it.  Then  even  the  smaller  will  disappear. 

The  next  moment  is  going  to  be  born  out  of  this  moment.  Live  this  moment  as  beautifully 
as  possible,  and  then  the  next  moment  is  going  to  be  automatically  more  beautiful.  It  will 
be  based  on  this  moment.  From  where  is  it  going  to  come?  It  is  going  to  come  out  of  this 
moment.  The  tomorrow  will  be  born  out  of  today.  Today  is  going  to  parent  tomorrow,  so 
why  bother  about  tomorrow? 

But  you  must  have  a  very  deeply  ambitious  mind,  an  achiever's  mind,  a  result-oriented 
mind.  You  cannot  love  the  process  —  you  are  always  thinking  about  the  result.  While 
painting,  you  cannot  enjoy  the  painting.  You  are  thinking  whether  art  critics  are  going  to 
enjoy  it  or  not,  whether  you  are  going  to  sell  it  at  a  high  price  or  not,  whether  it  is  going 
to  become  famous  like  Picasso's,  Van  Gogh's,  or  not.  While  writing  a  poem  you  are  not 
enjoying  the  process  of  it,  the  birth  of  it,  the  beauty  of  it,  the  benediction  of  it.  You  are 
thinking  whether  you  are  going  to  get  a  nobel  prize  or  not.  The  result  makes  everything 
ugly. 

Drop  this  and  allow  more  and  more  moments  where  you  simply  enjoy  the  very  process  of 
life.  It  is  a  dynamic  phenomenon,  always  flowing  —  always  reaching  but  never  arriving. 
That  is  the  whole  beauty  of  it. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #21 
Chapter  title:  None 

10  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609105 
ShortTitle:  PASSI021 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 


[A  new  sannyasin  says:  I'm  a  nursery  school  teacher,  I  teach  children  of  four-and-a-half 
to  five  years  old.] 

Very  good  work.  To  be  with  children  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful  things.  But  one  has  to 
learn  it,  otherwise  it  can  be  the  most  tedious  thing  in  the  world.  One  has  to  love  it, 
otherwise  it  is  one  of  the  most  boring  things.  It  can  drive  you  crazy.  It  can  bring  a 
nervous  breakdown,  because  children  are  so  noisy,  so  uncivilized,  uncultured...  animals; 
they  can  drive  anybody  crazy.  One  child  is  enough  to  drive  anybody  crazy,  so  a  whole  lot 
of  children,  a  whole  class  of  children  is  really  difficult.  But  if  you  love,  it  is  a  great 
discipline. 

So  don't  only  teach  them  —  learn,  too,  because  they  still  have  something  which  you  have 
lost.  They  will  also  lose  it  sooner  or  later.  Before  they  do,  learn  from  them.  They  are  still 
spontaneous,  they  are  still  fearless.  They  are  still  innocent.  They  are  losing  it  faster. 

The  more  civilization  grows,  the  sooner  childhood  ends.  Before,  it  used  to  end 
somewhere  near  fourteen,  fifteen,  sixteen.  Now  even  a  child  of  seven  years  is  no  more  a 
child.  He  starts  becoming  mature.  Maturity  comes  sooner  now  because  we  know  better 
methods  to  condition,  to  structure. 

So  it  is  good,  with  four  and  five-year-olds,  to  become  four  or  five  years  old.  And  don't 
think  that  you  know  and  they  don't  know.  Listen  —  they  know  something.  They  know 
more  intuitively.  They  are  not  knowledgeable,  but  they  have  a  vision,  a  very  clear  vision. 
Their  eyes  are  still  unclouded  and  their  hearts  are  still  streaming.  They  are  still 
unpolluted.  The  poison  has  not  yet  started.  They  are  still  natural. 

So  with  them  don't  be  knowledgeable.  Don't  be  a  teacher  —  be  a  friend.  Befriend  them 
and  start  looking  for  cues  for  innocence,  for  spontaneity,  for  intelligence.  You  will  be 
helped  tremendously  and  your  meditation  will  go  very  deep. 

[A  sannyasin  says  of  her  first  teacher,  Oscar  Ichazo,  founder  of  Arica:  I'm  still  very 
attached  to  my  first  teacher.  I  love  him  very  much.] 

You  can  continue  —  there  is  no  problem  in  it.  Why  create  any  conflict?  You  can  continue 
loving  him,  and  you  can  remain  attached.  There  is  nothing  wrong  in  it. 

Just  tell  him  that  this  is  your  new  love  affair.  An  american  woman  can  have  many  love 
affairs. 

...  Don't  be  worried  —  it  is  between  him  and  me.  Don't  you  worry.  You  can  continue  to 
love  both.  The  wrestle  will  be  between  me  and  him. 

I  am  never  against  any  love.  Whomsoever  you  love,  it's  good.  Love  is  always  good  — 
unconditionally  good.  And  wherever  you  can  learn  something,  learn. 

[She  then  says:  Osho,  with  you  I  feel  love,  but  in  the  ashram  I  feel  very  unloved.] 

That's  right  —  that's  my  polar  opposite.  I  have  to  have  a  polar  opposite.  If  you  love  me, 
you  will  tolerate  the  ashram.  That's  a  price  to  be  paid.  One  who  loves  me  by  and  by 
forgets  about  the  ashram  and  starts  accepting  it. 

The  ashram  is  part  of  the  world.  It  cannot  be  like  me...  it  is  not  possible.  But  you  should 
be  grateful  towards  it  because  it  helps  my  work,  that's  all.  It  makes  me  comfortable.  It 
helps  things  to  happen,  that's  all.  But  it  is  just  an  organisation.  Don't  be  worried  about  it. 
Forget  it  and  just  remember  me,  mm?  Good. 


[The  Tao  group  present  tonight,  which  comprised  thirteen  men  and  one  woman. 

The  group  leader  said:  In  the  beginning  the  energy  went  very  high.  But  after  while  people 
went  to  sleep  and  were  sort  of  falling  out  of  it.  People  would  go  out  and  then  come  back, 
so  the  energy  would  go  high  again. 

Then  he  asked  about  a  personal  problermlt's  something  like  electricity  occurring  in  my 
body  —  particularly  after  the  lecture.  It  comes  so  strong  —  as  if  I  was  on  two-hundred- 
and-twenty  volts.  1 

Mm  mm,  it  can  happen.  It  is  good;  nothing  to  be  worried  about.  Allow  it...  just  relax  with 
it  and  enjoy  the  feeling  of  it.  Even  If  sometimes  it  is  very  weird,  enjoy  the  feeling  of  it. 
Soon  you  will  become  immune  to  it  and  you  will  be  able  to  absorb  it. 

It  always  happens  when  new  energy  is  released  and  you  don't  have  the  capacity  to  absorb 
it.  The  energy  is  there,  hovering.  It  is  more  than  you  know  how  to  absorb.  It  is  actually 
bio-electricity,  and  a  human  being  is  a  dynamo.  It  can  create  tremendous  energy. 

So  just  enjoy  it,  and  when  it  is  happening  just  sit  silently,  be  thrilled  by  it.  Use  it,  vibrate 
with  it.  Let  it  have  its  own  way.  Don't  become  an  obstacle.  Don't  become  a  controller; 
don't  try  to  manipulate  it.  Don't  try  to  discipline  and  tame  it.  It  is  untamed  energy,  and  it 
has  to  remain  that  way.  Untamed  it  is  beautiful  —  tamed  it  becomes  ugly.  Then  it  is  just 
like  a  circus  tiger  who  only  looks  like  a  tiger.  Once  the  wildness  is  lost,  everything  is  lost. 
So  just  allow  it.  Soon  your  body  will  become  adjusted  to  it.  There  is  no  need  to  control  it. 
If  you  control  it,  the  body  will  never  come  to  a  point  of  adjustment;  the  body's  capacity 
will  remain  the  same.  Allow  it  and  the  body  will  adjust  automatically.  The  body  has  a 
tremendous  capacity  to  adjust.  It  can  adjust  to  any  situation.  Its  capacity,  its  flexibility,  is 
simply  immeasurable.  So  allow  it. 

And  a  group  like  this  can  happen  again,  so  you  have  to  learn  a  few  things  about  it.  It  was 
good  —  it  was  a  new  experience.  One  thing  —  don't  allow  people  to  fall  asleep;  keep  them 
awake.  Create  situations  in  which  they  are  awake.  Chant,  or  do  something  so  that  they 
cannot  fall  asleep.  If  they  fall  asleep,  this  will  happen  —  this  up  and  down.  It  is  as  if  half 
of  the  person  is  asleep,  paralysed,  and  half  is  awake,  alive.  If  a  few  people  are  asleep  in 
the  group,  part  of  the  group  energy  is  paralysed,  one  part  is  soaring  high  —  and  that 
creates  a  contradiction. 

So  first  try  in  every  way  to  keep  everybody  awake.  When  you  feel  that  now  it  is 
impossible,  let  everybody  go  to  sleep.  But  maintain  a  non-contradictory  state.  That  is  one 
of  the  meanings  of  the  word  tao  —  the  energy  should  be  non-contradictory.  Don't  allow 
anybody  to  go  out;  that  creates  disturbance.  Once  he  goes  out,  he  takes  much  energy  out 
of  the  room.  It  becomes  a  leakage.  When  he  comes  in,  he  brings  in  some  other  type  of 
vibration  from  the  outside.  That  becomes  a  disturbance  and  a  distraction. 

So  don't  allow  anybody  to  go  out  or  let  them  all  go  out.  If  it  becomes  very  necessary  that 
people  go  out,  let  everybody  go  out  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  let  them  all  come  back  in 
together  again.  But  don't  create  a  split  in  the  group  —  that's  what  I  mean. 

In  fact,  this  group  could  have  gone  higher  than  any  group  with  women,  because  when 
men  and  women  are  together,  they  are  in  proportion,  they  balance.  Their  energies  are 
different.  That's  why  one  feels  the  group  is  more  graceful,  because  man's  aggression  is 
absorbed  by  the  woman's  receptivity.  So  there  is  a  peace,  a  harmony  —  man's  logic  and 
rationality  is  balanced  by  the  irrationality  and  intuition  of  the  woman.  There  is  a  balance. 


So  I  can  understand  —  it  can  become  very  difficult  if  they  are  all  men.  The  energy  can 
soar  very  high,  can  become  very  aggressively  high.  That's  why  in  militaries,  in  the  army, 
women  are  not  allowed  because  the  soldiers  have  to  fight.  Their  energies  should  not  be 
balanced,  otherwise  they  cannot  fight.  That  was  one  of  the  reasons  why  America  could 
not  win  in  Vietnam  —  girlfriends  were  allowed  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the 
army.  So  the  american  soldiers  were  more  balanced,  more  at  home.  It  is  difficult  then 
because  you  need  male  energy  on  the  front. 

If  someone  is  sexually  satisfied,  why  should  he  fight  in  the  first  place?  All  fight  comes 
out  of  frustration.  The  soldier  has  to  remain  sexually  frustrated  —  then  he  starts  fighting. 
Then  even  his  bullet  becomes  a  sexual  symbol  penetrating  the  other's  being.  A  sword 
becomes  his  genital  organ,  and  he  uses  the  other  as  a  woman.  Then  his  sexuality  starts 
becoming  destructive.  But  if  the  woman  is  there,  he  loves  the  woman  and  she  is 
following  him  like  a  shadow,  he  will  be  so  at  ease  that  it  will  be  impossible  for  him  to 
fight. 

So  when  it  is  an  all  male  group,  the  energy  will  soar  very  high.  That  can  create  trouble, 
but  you  have  to  know  how  to  use  it.  When  it  is  happening,  let  them  all  sit,  not  doing 
anything.  Just  let  them  all  sit  in  a  circle.  Let  them  hold  hands  and  vibrate.  Let  them  look 
into  each  other.  Let  energies  soar  high  —  as  high  as  it  can  go.  This  group  could  have 
become  one  of  the  most  beautiful  experiences...  they  would  have  attained  to  a  peak.  But 
you  were  not  aware,  so  not  to  be  worried. 

If  it  happens  next  time,  don't  be  worried.  You  have  to  work  in  a  different  way.  Because 
the  balancing  woman  is  not  there,  the  energy  has  no  weight  on  it.  The  woman  is  a  weight. 
She  does  not  allow  you  to  go  very  far.  She  pulls  you  back,  absorbs  your  energy.  Man  left 
alone  has  no  anchor,  no  home  base.  There  is  no  way  to  bring  his  energy  back. 

So  if  it  is  an  all  male  group,  first  let  their  energy  soar  high,  and  when  you  feel  that  it  is 
coming  to  a  climax,  a  crescendo,  and  they  will  burst  or  explode  if  you  don't  do 
something,  then  let  them  dance,  and  immediately  the  dance  will  bring  their  energy  back. 
The  whole  room  will  become  filled,  charged. 

If  it  is  a  female  group,  you  will  have  another  difficulty.  The  energy  will  be  very  relaxing. 
You  will  find  that  there  is  not  any  peak  possible;  only  a  valley  is  possible.  The  woman  is 
a  valley.  When  there  are  women,  allow  them.  Let  them  sit  —  just  as  the  men  did  —  but  let 
them  relax.  They  will  reach  the  very  depth  of  the  valley.  When  you  feel  that  they  have 
touched  the  very  depth  of  the  valley  and  that  now  it  is  difficult  to  go  further,  and  that  if 
you  do,  they  will  die....  Because  the  ultimate  in  relaxation  is  death;  the  ultimate  in  tension 
is  madness.  So  if  a  man  is  allowed  to  go  to  the  ultimate  of  his  aggression,  he  will  become 
mad.  And  if  a  woman  is  allowed  to  relax  to  her  ultimate  capacity,  she  will  die.  If  a  man  is 
allowed  to  go  to  the  ultimate  point  of  energy,  he  will  kill.  If  a  woman  is  allowed  to  her 
ultimate  capacity,  she  will  commit  suicide. 

So  when  you  feel  that  the  energy  is  really  going  so  deep  that  everybody  has  disappeared, 
then  tell  them  to  dance.  Again,  dance  will  be  helpful.  It  will  bring  them  back.  Dance  is  a 
very  very  balancing  act.  If  you  are  going  mad,  it  brings  you  back  to  sanity.  If  you  are 
relaxed  too  much  it  brings  you  back  to  a  normal  state  of  energy.  It  works  both  ways.  So 
whatsoever  the  group  —  male  or  female  —  dance  can  always  be  used.  But  first  they  have 
to  be  allowed  to  go  to  the  very  extreme.  Nobody  should  be  allowed  to  go  out;  nobody 
should  be  allowed  to  go  to  sleep. 

Next  time  it  happens,  just  try,  mm?  Nothing  to  be  worried  about. 


The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #22 
Chapter  title:  None 

1 1  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609115 
ShortTitle:  PASSI022 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

Deva  means  divine,  and  tarpana  means  sacrifice  —  divine  sacrifice,  or  sacrifice  to  the 
divine.  And  that's  what  life  really  is.  Unless  it  becomes  a  sacrifice,  an  offering,  you  go  on 
missing  it.  Unless  you  give  your  life  totally,  you  miss  it.  And  there  is  no  way  ordinarily  to 
give  it  totally  except  to  give  it  to  God,  because  only  the  total  can  become  the  receptor  of  a 
total  gift. 

If  you  give  your  life  to  a  woman,  it  cannot  be  total  because  she  is  not  total;  she  cannot 
contain  that  much.  And  you  cannot  give  that  much  because  human  limitations  are  always 
there.  If  you  give  your  life  to  ambition,  it  can  never  be  total.  There  is  only  one  way  to  be 
total,  and  that  is  to  give  to  the  totality.  That's  what  God  is.  By  giving,  we  get;,  by  sharing, 
we  get  —  not  by  possessing.  That  is  the  meaning  of  sacrifice  —  that  by  possession  we 
miss,  we  lose.  The  more  you  possess,  the  poorer  you  are.  The  more  you  give,  the  more 
rich  you  are.  If  one  can  give  totally,  unconditionally,  then  richness  is  tremendous, 
immense.  Then  it  knows  no  limitations  of  time  and  space.  It  is  immeasurable. 

The  word  sacrifice  is  very  beautiful.  It  has  become  ugly  by  wrong  associations.  People 
have  tried  to  sacrifice  everything  except  themselves.  Sometimes  it  is  an  animal  they  have 
sacrificed  to  God,  sometimes  something  else,  but  they  go  on  avoiding  the  real  sacrifice  — 
and  that  is  the  sacrifice  of  one's  own  being. 

That  means  that  after  the  sacrifice  you  are  no  more  there  and  only  God  is...  that  He  exists 
in  you...  that  you  become  just  a  vehicle,  a  passage,  an  expression,  a  song  sung  by  Him. 
You  become  a  flute,  a  hollow  bamboo,  nothing  else. 

I  give  you  this  name  Tarpana  so  that  you  can  remember  to  give  more  and  more,  to  love 
more  and  more.  Never  ask  for  anything,  and  a  thousand-fold  will  be  coming. 

Jesus  says,  'Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given.'  And  I  say  to  you,  'Don't  ask,  and  it  shall  be  given.' 
Ask,  and  you  have  already  become  a  beggar.  Ask,  and  already  you  have  desired.  Ask,  and 
you  have  already  expected  something  —  and  whatsoever  you  can  expect  will  bring 
misery,  because  you  are  misery.  The  very  idea  of  'I  am'  is  miserable.  Then  I  expect.  This 
'I'  goes  on  creating  new  desires,  new  projects,  and  it  goes  on  asking. 

Drop  asking.  Just  be  and  everything  will  be  given  to  you. 

[A  sannyasin  said  he  had  done  a  nine-month  encounter  course  in  the  London  centre  but 
still  felt  unfinished.] 

In  fact,  no  group  can  be  felt  as  finished  because  a  group  is  artificial.  The  real  is  only  in 
life.  A  group  has  to  begin  and  end.  The  beginning  is  arbitrary;  the  end  is  also  arbitrary.  It 


is  a  created  situation.  It  cannot  be  complete.  In  the  very  nature  of  things  it  cannot  be 
complete.  And  one  should  not  ask  for  completion  because  that  is  asking  for  the 
impossible.  Only  life  is  complete  because  it  is  an  eternally  ongoing  process.  It  knows  no 
beginning  and  knows  no  end.  It  never  started  and  it  is  never  going  to  end. 

Each  moment,  it  is  complete.  Each  moment,  as  it  is,  is  complete...  it  is  perfect.  Life 
moves  from  one  perfection  to  another  perfection.  It  is  not  from  imperfection  to 
perfection.  It  is  just  from  perfection  to  another  perfection,  from  one  grandeur  to  another 
grandeur,  from  one  richness  to  another  richness.  In  &ct  it  is  not  a  growth  —  it  is  a  play. 
The  very  idea  that  one  is  growing  from  one  point  to  another  and  becoming  more  perfect, 
is  linear.  We  are  moving  in  a  circle;  we  are  not  going  anywhere.  We  are  simply  going 
because  we  are  energies  and  energy  has  to  go  —  not  that  there  is  a  goal,  but  that  energy 
has  to  dance. 

So  rather  than  going  somewhere,  it  is  more  like  a  dance.  When  somebody  is  dancing,  you 
never  ask  'Where  are  you  going?  Why  are  you  making  so  much  fuss?  What  is  the  goal?' 
When  a  person  is  dancing  you  know  that  he  is  not  going  anywhere  —  simply  enjoying. 
Energy  is  there  and  overpouring,  overflowing.  What  to  do  with  energy?  God  is 
extravagant  —  hence  so  many  flowers.  Extravagant  for  no  purpose  at  all.  It  is  just  that  the 
energy  is  there,  so  what  to  do?  —  flower!  So  many  millions  of  birds  and  insects  and  men. 
Darwin  created  a  very  linear  concept  in  the  western  mind  —  that  of  evolution.  Nothing  is 
evolving.  It  is  not  that  the  monkey  becomes  the  man.  The  monkey  is  perfect;  there  is 
nothing  to  become.  He  is  as  perfect  as  man,  it  is  a  different  kind  of  Perfection,  and  man  is 
another  kind  of  perfection.  There  is  no  hierarchy  —  that  man  is  higher  than  the  monkey, 
and  the  monkey  is  higher  than  the  donkey  —  all  nonsense.  Nobody  is  higher,  nobody  is 
lower.  All  are  performing  their  own  game.  The  donkey  has  chosen  to  be  a  donkey;  that's 
his  will.  And  the  monkey  has  chosen  to  be  a  monkey. 

Nothing  is  going  anywhere  —  that  is  the  eastern  concept.  And  everything  is  a  play,  a 
dance,  leela.  Hence  everything  is  as  it  should  be.  There  is  no  need  to  be  discontented  — 
unless  you  decide  to  play  the  game  of  discontent;  then  it's  okay. 

It  is  said  about  a  very  great  sufi  mystic  that  he  was  talking  to  a  few  people...  he  was 
talking  about  the  same  thing  that  I  am  talking  about  to  you.  He  was  saying  that 
everything  is  perfect  because  how  can  it  be  otherwise?  God  is  perfect.  Out  of  His  energy 
comes  everything,  so  everything  is  bound  to  be  perfect. 

A  man  stood  up  —  he  was  a  hunchback  —  and  he  said  'What  about  me?'  It  was  very 
painful  for  him  to  even  stand.  His  body  was  very  unshapely  and  ugly.  He  said  'What 
about  me?  What  do  you  say  about  me?  You  say  everything  is  perfect.' 

The  mystic  said  'I  have  never  seen  such  a  perfect  hunchback.  You  are  the  most  perfect 
hunchback  I  have  ever  seen!'  Everything  is  perfect. 

It  is  very  difficult  to  drop  the  idea  of  evolution  because  with  evolution  there  is  a 
possibility  for  the  mind  to  exist.  You  have  to  hanker,  desire,  seek;  then  ambition  is  open. 
If  nothing  is  happening,  and  everything  is  as  it  has  always  been  —  just  forms  change  and 
the  content  remains  the  same;  everything  appears  to  be  changing  and  nothing  changes;  it 
is  just  an  overflowing  energy,  a  waterfall,  for  no  purpose  at  all,  going  nowhere,  moving 
round  and  round,  a  merry-go-round  —  then  it  is  difficult,  but  if  you  can  understand  that, 
suddenly  one  relaxes.  Then  there  is  no  tension. 

All  growth  groups  are  a  by-product  of  the  evolutionary  concept  that  one  has  to  grow.  One 
has  to  do  nothing!  One  has  just  to  be.  One  has  just  to  delight.  All  is  available  —  one  has 


just  to  dance.  The  orchestra  is  there  and  people  are  ready,  just  waiting  for  you  to 
participate.  Everything  is  ready  —  just  start  dancing. 

So  this  time  here  don't  seek  anything.  If  you  want  to  do  a  few  groups,  you  can,  but  just 
for  enjoyment.  And  that  is  a  totally  different  dimension  —  of  doing  them  for  sheer  joy. 
You  would  like  to  have  a  few  communications,  a  few  encounter  people  playing  roles  and 
games,  and  this  and  that.  Enjoy,  but  don't  be  a  seeker.  Seeking  creates  suffering.  Non¬ 
seeking  is  bliss.  You  cannot  seek  bliss  because  that  is  impossible.  Whatsoever  you  seek  is 
bound  to  be  suffering.  Seeking  is  suffering.  Don't  seek  —  just  be.  For  these  six  months 
here,  just  be. 

I'm  not  saying  not  to  do  anything.  I'm  saying  to  do  as  many  things  as  you  like,  but  this 
time  just  let  them  be  plays  and  games.  Enjoy  the  very  thing;  don't  hanker  for  the  result. 
That's  why  you  are  feeling  incomplete.  If  you  had  enjoyed  it  moment  to  moment,  this 
feeling  would  not  have  been  there.  That  the  total  result  of  nine  months'  work  is  a  feeling 
of  incompletion,  is  not  good.  Something  basic  was  missed.  And  it  is  not  only  that  you 
missed  all  participants  would  have  missed  because  that's  how  the  contemporary  mind  is 
missing  everything. 

Even  if  you  tell  people  not  to  do  anything,  not  to  seek  anything,  they  say  'Okay,  we  will 
not  seek,  but  then  what  will  happen?'  Look  at  the  absurdity.  They  say  'Okay,  we  will  not 
seek.  But  then  will  it  happen  or  not?'  The  seeking  continues.  Now  it  goes  a  little  deeper, 
more  underground,  but  they  are  again  asking  whether  something  will  happen  or  not.  If 
you  tell  them  to  just  sit  and  enjoy.... 

Man  has  become  incapable  of  being  in  the  present  —  and  that  incapacity  is  what  hell  is. 

So  this  time....  You  have  been  doing  .well,  but  now  the  moment  has  come  when  seeking 
has  to  be  dropped;  playing  has  to  be  started.  So  do  whatsoever  groups  you  want  to,  do 
whatsoever  meditations  you  want  to.  Don't  misinterpret  me  because  there  are  people  who, 
when  I  say  that  there  is  no  need  to  do  anything,  say  'Why  do  meditations?  Why  do  a 
group?’  Then  they  become  sad,  they  become  depressed,  because  their  energy  gets 
suffocated.  I'm  not  saying  that. 

I  am  saying  to  do  as  many  things  as  you  can,  because  even  God  cannot  contain  energy  — 
that's  why  existence  is.  To  contain  energy  is  to  become  ill.  To  contain  energy  is  to 
become  neurotic,  because  the  energy  wants  to  explode,  it  wants  to  express  itself.  It  wants 
to  move.  It  wants  to  go  on  an  adventure.  It  wants  to  remain  alive,  fresh  and  flowing.  So  if 
you  don't  do  anything,  you  are  stuck. 

I'm  not  saying  don't  do  anything.  I'm  saying  don't  be  a  doer  any  more.  Become  a  player... 
just  for  the  delight  of  it.  And  much  is  going  to  happen.... 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  feel  guilty  because  I  always  miss  the  morning  meditation  and  the 
lecture.  I  always  feel  lazy  in  the  morning. 

Osho  checks  her  energy.] 

Simply  allow  it.  It  is  just  natural  to  your  body  energy.  Different  people  have  different 
times  for  their  body.  Each  person,  in  twenty-four  hours,  has  two  types  of  extremes. 

For  two  hours  in  the  night  the  body  temperature  falls  by  two  degrees;  sometimes  even  by 
three  and  four  degrees.  Those  two  hours  are  the  best  for  sleep.  In  the  same  way,  in  the 
daytime  the  body  temperature  rises  by  two  degrees,  or  sometimes  even  three.  Those  are 


the  best  hours  for  work.  One  is  absolutely  full  of  energy.  But  these  periods  are  different 
for  each,  and  even  different  for  each  person  in  different  times. 

For  example  if  a  person's  temperature  falls  in  the  night  between  three  and  five,  then  those 
will  be  the  hours  of  the  best  sleep  for  the  person.  If  he  gets  up  at  that  time  he  will  suffer 
the  whole  day.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  laziness.  It  is  a  wrong  concept.  I'm  not  saying 
that  there  are  not  lazy  people,  but  many  people  are  just  thought  to  be  lazy  —  they  are  not. 
For  example  if  somebody's  temperature  falls  between  five  and  seven,  he  will  be  thought 
lazy.  At  least  in  the  East  he  will  be  thought  lazy;  in  the  West,  not  so  much. 

If  that  person's  temperature  falls  between  five  and  seven,  and  he  gets  up  between  five  and 
seven,  for  the  whole  day  he  will  feel  tired,  as  if  something  is  missing.  He  will  not  feel 
vital.  He  will  feel  sleepy.  You  can  sleep  for  eight  hours  —  that  won't  help.  These  two 
hours  are  a  must.  If  somebody  sleeps  only  for  those  two  hours,  that  is  enough.  But  if  you 
don't  sleep  those  two  hours,  you  can  sleep  for  ten;  that  won't  do. 

So  as  I  feel  your  energy,  your  temperature  must  be  falling  near  six  to  eight  in  the 
morning.  So  that  is  the  time  —  you  just  sleep.  There  is  no  need  to  feel  guilty.  You  can  do 
the  evening  meditation  —  don't  be  worried  about  it. 

By  and  by  we  can  change  it.  Rather  than  forcing  and  getting  up  against  your  body,  the 
temperature  fall  can  be  changed.  So  in  the  night  when  you  go  to  sleep,  make  it  a  point 
just  to  tell  your  body....  Just  talk  to  your  body.  You  should  learn  how  to  talk  with  the 
body.  Ten  your  body,  'Let  the  temperature  fall  between  three  and  five.'  And  trust  it;  don't 
force.  After  three  weeks  you  will  find  it  easier  and  easier  to  get  up.  By  and  by  the  shift 
will  happen,  and  your  body  temperature  will  start  falling  between  three  and  five.  Then 
you  can  get  up  at  five  completely  fresh  and  with  no  problem.  But  don't  force  it.  Forcing  is 
just  absurd;  it  cannot  work. 

You  need  deep  auto-suggestion  to  change  the  body  energy  —  its  flow,  its  timings. 

...  So  there  is  nothing  to  be  worried  about.  Simply  go  on  suggesting.  And  another  thing  — 
make  it  a  point  to  go  to  bed  regularly  every  night.  Drop  this  habit.  This  is  very  disturbing; 
it  creates  confusion  in  the  body.  The  body  is  a  very  simple  mechanism.  You  put  it  into 
trouble  unnecessarily.  One  day  you  go  at  eight  o'clock  and  the  next  day  the  body  expects 
that  you  will  go  at  eight  o'clock  again,  and  that  day  you  go  at.eleven.  The  body  is 
confused  —  what  is  the  matter?  —  because  after  twenty-four  hours  it  gets  ready;  it  expects. 
It  is  just  like  food.  If  you  eat  every  day  at  eleven,  then  at  eleven  the  body  expects  food. 
The  juices  start  flowing,  the  appetite  arises.  But  if  you  frustrate  the  body  every  day,  by 
and  by  it  loses  contact  with  you.  Then  it  becomes  muddle-headed.  It  does  not  know  what 
is  going  on.  It  loses  sensitivity. 

[Osho  said  that  he  did  not  mean  that  she  had  to  be  absolutely  strict  about  what  time  she 
retired.  If  occasionally  it  was  later  than,  for  example  ten,  that  was  alright,  but  irregularity 
should  not  become  a  regularity.  He  said  that  with  this,  plus  the  suggestion  to  the  body 
about  the  temperature  fall,  soon  she  would  find  that  she  woke  at  five  and  felt  like  getting 
up.] 


What  I  am  meaning  to  point  out  is,  never  be  violent  with  the  body.  It  is  a  very  simple, 
subtle,  delicate  mechanism.  Persuade  it...  it  will  come. 


[The  Enlightenment  Group  is  present.  One  group  member  said  her  body  felt  divided 
between  the  left  and  right  sides,  and  this  was  more  when  she  meditated.] 

Do  one  thing.  In  the  morning  when  you  get  up,  sit  in  your  bed,  left  hand  this  way  [Osho 
holds  his  left  hand  up-turned],  with  the  right  hand  on  top  of  it.  Start  pouring  energy  from 
the  right  hand  into  the  left.  Just  feel,  visualise  energy  falling  like  a  waterfall,  and  that  the 
left  is  receiving  it,  absorbing  it.  Don't  touch  the  hand;  keep  at  least  two  or  three  inches 
away.  You  will  start  feeling  the  tingling  sensation  in  the  left,  and  you  will  feel  warmth 
flowing. 

If  the  left  is  receptive,  there  is  no  problem.  The  right  has  too  much  —  give  it  to  the  left. 
Feel  the  whole  left  side  of  the  body  being  energised,  vitalised.  Do  this  for  just  five  to 
seven  minutes,  and  you  will  feel  a  balance  coming.  Whenever  during  the  day  you  feel 
again  that  the  imbalance  is  there,  just  pour  it.  In  the  night  before  you  go  to  sleep,  pour  it 
again  and  go  to  sleep. 

In  the  morning  it  will  help  the  left  side  to  be  awake,  alert,  vital.  In  the  night  it  will  help 
the  right  side  to  relax.  So  before  going  to  sleep,  pour  it,  to  help  the  right  side  —  otherwise 
it  will  be  too  active  and  you  will  not  be  able  to  go  to  sleep;  and  in  the  morning  to  help  the 
left  side  —  otherwise  it  will  be  too  inactive  and  you  will  not  be  able  to  get  up,  or  you  will 
not  be  fully  alert.  In  the  daytime,  whenever  you  feel  to,  you  can  simply  try  to  pour  the 
energy. 

You  will  become  balanced.  There  is  nothing  to  be  worried  about. 

[A  visitor  says:  I  came  here  to  go  through  most  of  the  groups,  to  see  you,  to  hear  you.  I 
would  like,  I  want  you  to  love  me,  but  I  don't  want  to  take  sannyas. 

Every  day  in  the  ashram  I  am  being  asked,  'Why  don't  you  take  sannyas?  When  will  you 
take  sannyas?'  —  and  it  disturbs  me.  I  feel  that  all  my  life  I  have  been  running  after  a 
father  I  didn't  get. 

I  have  been  a  catholic  priest  already,  and  I  have  had  enough  of  this  kind  of  clothes  and  so 
on. 

But  I  just  wanted  to  say  that  I  want  to  be  loved  by  you.  And  I  am  asking  you  if  you  can 
love  me,  even  if  I  don't  take  sannyas?] 

No,  I  love  you!  [laughter]  That  is  not  the  point.  For  that  sannyas  is  not  needed  at  all.  But 
your  disturbance  shows  that  you  want  to  take  sannyas,  otherwise  your  disturbance  would 
not  be  there;  nobody  could  disturb  you  by  asking.  If  people  ask  and  you  get  disturbed, 
that  simply  shows  that  deep  down  you  want  to  take  sannyas,  and  they  bring  it  to  your 
consciousness  again  and  again.  If  you  don't  want  to  take  sannyas,  nobody  can  disturb 
you. 

And  the  second  thing  —  sannyas  has  nothing  to  do  with  being  a  catholic  priest.  It  has 
nothing  to  do  with  it.  And  it  is  an  absolutely  radical  phenomenon.  It  is  not  a 
regimentation.  It  is  not  any  outer  discipline  imposed  upon  you.  The  clothes  and  things 
like  that  are  simply  gestures  —  and  they  help  tremendously. 

My  love  is  there  about  that  you  can  be  absolutely  fearless;  drop  your  fear  —  but  you  will 
never  feel  at  home  here  unless  you  are  in  orange.  That  is  your  problem  —  it  is  not  a 
problem  for  me.  You  will  never  feel  at  home  here.  Amidst  so  many  sannyasins,  you  will 
always  feel  that  you  are  an  outsider,  and  that  will  be  a  disturbance  to  you. 


It  is  tremendously  beautiful  to  become  a  part;  things  start  flowing  more  easily.  You  are 
more  of  the  family.  You  not  only  belong  to  me  —  you  belong  to  my  family  too.  Not  only 
will  you  be  receiving  my  love,  you  will  be  receiving  the  love  of  all  my  sannyasins.  I  can 
love  you  without  your  being  a  sannyasin,  but  my  sannyasins  won't  be  able  to  love  you  — 
and  you  will  miss  much  love.  You  will  be  with  them  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  you  will 
always  be  standing  a  little  far  away,  a  little  distant,  and  that  distance  will  be  unnecessary; 
there  is  no  need  for  it. 

With  my  sannyas  there  is  no  reason  to  be  afraid  that  you  are  getting  into  some 
regimentation,  some  discipline.  There  is  no  discipline.  And  if  you  are  Still  seeking  a 
father  figure,  you  are  Still  a  Catholic.  That  is  the  whole  base  of  Catholicism.  If  the  father 
figure  is  not  available,  then  in  heaven  there  is  the  father.  And  if  you  cannot  get  him,  the. 
father,  at  least  you  can  approach  the  son,  and  through  the  son  you  can  approach  the 
father.  But  that  is  the  whole  Christian  ideology.  It  is  father-oriented. 

So  you  may  have  dropped  out  of  it,  but  deep  down  in  the  unconscious  you  are  Still  a 
Christian.  My  feeling  —  if  you  ask  me  to  be  true  about  you  —  is  that  you  are  not  afraid  of 
the  regimentation  and  the  dress.  Your  Catholic  is  afraid  of  the  orange.  Your  Christian  is 
afraid.  That  Christian  is  there  and  he  will  feel  that  you  are  betraying  him  or  something. 
You  may  not  be  conscious  of  it  at  all.  Consciously  you  may  be  thinking  that  you  are  a 
free  person  and  that  you  have  left  all  that;  now  you  don't  want  to  get  into  it  again.  That 
may  be  your  conscious  idea,  but  that  has  nothing  to  do  with  your  reality. 

As  I  can  see  it  right  now,  it  is  your  Christian  afraid  of  the  East,  afraid  of  the  eastern, 
afraid  of  the  orange,  the  ochre.  It  is  the  Christian.  And  it  will  be  helpful  to  drop  that 
Christian  completely.  You  will  be  freed  and  you  will  feel  very  weightless.  But  think 
about  it;  there  is  no  hurry. 

If  you  love  me  and  you  want  my  love,  you  will  have  to  listen  to  what  I  am  saying.  You 
will  have  to  try  to  absorb  it.  Unless  you  start  trying  to  understand  my  standpoint  also,  that 
love  will  be  meaningless.  Love  itself  won't  do.  A  transmission  of  understanding  will  also 
be  needed,  will  be  very  basically  needed. 

So  love  is  there;  don't  be  worried  about  it.  In  fact  I  love  you  —  that's  why  I  give  you 
sannyas.  Love  is  a  priori;  it  precedes  sannyas.  It  doesn’t  succeed  sannyas.  It  is  not  that 
you  become  a  sannyasin  and  then  I  love  you.  In  fact  I  love  you  —  that's  why  you  become 
a  sannyasin.  And  whether  you  remain  a  sannyasin  or  not,  is  not  the  question,  but  out  of 
the  love  you  take  the  jump  with  me.  I'm  not  promising  you  any  heaven  or  paradise  or 
anything.  I'm  simply  promising  you  a  delightful  journey  to  nowhere. 

I'm  not  saying  that  you  will  arrive.  I'm  simply  saying  that  there  is  no  place  to  arrive  at. 

But  wherever  you  are,  you  will  be  moving.  I  promise  you  movement,  I  promise  you 
process,  I  promise  you  a  dynamism.  And  wherever  you  are,  whatsoever  the  situation,  I 
prepare  you  to  be  happy  there,  to  be  celebrating  there. 

These  clothes  are  just  symbolic.  They  are  not  in  any  way  serious  affairs  as  it  is  with 
Christianity.  They  are  very  symbolic,  and  symbols  of  non-seriousness.  It  is  just  a  non- 
serious  gesture.  I  want  you  to  become  a  little  foolish,  that's  all.  And  these  clothes  will 
make  you  a  little  foolish.  With  these  clothes  you  will  look  a  little  wiser.  With  these 
clothes...  just  look  around  [indicating  the  group] 

...  Not  in  this  ashram,  but  outside  the  ashram  you  will  be  a  fool! 

...  You  do  whatsoever  you  want  to  —  and  be  honest  to  yourself.  Very  good! 


[A  sannyasin  says:  I  leave  tomorrow.  I  have  a  problem  —  I  have  no  self-confidence.  I  am 
very  unsure  of  myself,  and  I  feel  much  anger  sometimes.] 

About  your  problem....  Whenever  a  person  feels  the  lack  of  self-confidence,  he  becomes 
easily  angry.  In  fact  anger  is  always  an  indication  that  you  are  not  self-confident.  A 
person  who  is  confident  about  himself  is  not  easily  angry.  It  is  very  difficult  for  him  to 
get  into  anger.  It  is  our  weakness  that  leads  us  into  anger.  The  stronger  you  are,  the  less 
anger  will  be  there.  The  strongest  person  goes  beyond  anger.  Anger  is  weakness. 

So  don't  be  worried  about  anger;  it  is  a  byproduct.  Rather  be  concerned  how  to  become 
stronger.  Do  three  things.  One  is,  meditate  regularly.  Within  six  months  you  will  feel  a 
burst  of  energy  and  a  confidence  arising  in  you.  But  don't  be  bothered  about  whether  any 
result  is  coming  or  not.  Continue  for  six  months.  And  choose  any  meditation  you  like,  but 
stick  to  that;  don't  change  —  one  day  Kundalini,  another  day  Dynamic. 

One  day  it  will  suddenly  happen  that  you  will  be  full  of  energy,  and  suddenly  you  will 
see  that  all  unconfidence  has  gone.  You  have  become  sure  about  yourself,  centred. 

The  second  thing.  Before  going  to  sleep,  just  stand  in  the  room  and  feel  that  you  are  a 
pillar  of  energy  from  the  ceiling  to  the  floor  —  just  the  shape  of  a  pillar.  Close  your  eyes 
and  feel  that  you  are  a  pillar  of  energy,  and  that  you  are  melting.  Visualise  that  the  energy 
is  falling  and  you  are  underneath  it,  as  if  taking  a  shower  of  energy  —  just  for  seven 
minutes.  And  feel  completely  cleansed,  purified,  bathed,  and  then  go  to  sleep. 

And  the  third  thing.  Whenever  you  feel  angry,  don't  throw  it  on  persons.  Rather,  beat  a 
pillow.  [For  details  of  the  pillow  meditation  see  Hammer  On  The  Rock,  Sunday, 
December  21st,  1975.] 

[The  sannyasin  then  asks  if  he  should  finish  psychoanalysis  which  he  has  been  in  for 
seven  years.] 

No,  continue.  Now  I  give  you  a  project.  Continue,  and  convert  the  psychoanalyst  to 
sannyas  [laughter].  That  is  the  real  work  to  be  done  now.  He  has  helped  you;  now  you 
have  to  help  him  —  otherwise  if  he  commits  suicide,  you  will  be  responsible! 

So  continue.  He  will  be  in  the  illusion  that  you  are  being  psychoanalysed  —  you  start 
analysing  him!  That  will  bring  you  more  confidence  than  anything  else  —  if  you  can 
convert  your  psychoanalyst.  That  will  bring  you  much  self-confidence.  So  sabo-tage...! 
When  he  says,  'Talk,'  tank  about  meditation.  Talk  about  the  ecstasy  and  bliss  that  comes  - 

-  whether  it  has  come  or  not,  don't  be  worried  [much  laughter].  And  feel  very  happy. 

Soon  he  will  become  your  follower.  Once  you  can  make  a  follower  out  of  him,  you  will 
be  so  confident  that  there  will  be  no  need  for  psychoanalysis. 

You  don't  see  many  psychoanalysts  here,  but  there  are  many.  All  psychoanalysts  are 
bound  to  come  by  and  by.  They  need  help.  So  continue  analysis  because  it  will  be  needed 

—  not  for  you,  but  for  the  analyst. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #23 
Chapter  title:  None 

12  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 


Archive  code:  7609125 
ShortTitle:  PASSI023 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

Anand  means  bliss,  and  bhavana  means  feeling  —  the  feel  of  bliss,  the  feeling  of  bliss. 
And  remember  that  blissfulness  has  nothing  to  do  with  thinking.  It  is  a  feeling.  People 
who  are  stuck  in  their  heads  can  only  be  unhappy  and  miserable.  For  them  there  is  no 
other  way.  The  head  is  hell,  the  very  centre  of  hell.  Hell  is  not  somewhere  underground. 

It  is  in  the  head.  It  is  there  that  the  devil  has  his  workshop. 

So  fan  more  and  more  towards  the  heart  —  and  you  can  fall  very  easily;  there  is  no 
problem.  Just  allow  it.  The  society  does  not  help  it.  The  society  is  against  the  heart.  The 
society  is  very  stubbornly  foolish.  The  society  is  only  for  the  head  because  it  wants 
people  to  be  more  and  more  efficient  mechanisms,  nothing  else.  The  only  requirement 
from  the  society  is  that  you  should  be  efficient.  The  problem  is  that  the  head  is  efficient 
and  the  heart  is  not.  The  heart  can  never  be  efficient,  and  the  head  can  be  very  very 
efficient.  So  by  and  by  the  society  has  come  to  train  the  head  and  bypass  the  heart. 

In  fact  the  more  feeling  the  person  has,  the  more  incapable  he  becomes  of  doing  many 
things.  For  example,  he  cannot  be  a  soldier;  he  cannot  kill.  He  cannot  be  a  butcher.  He 
cannot  be  a  politician,  because  that  is  a  very  subtle  butchery.  He  cannot  be  a  criminal,  he 
cannot  commit  any  crime;  it  becomes  impossible. 

Once  you  start  feeling,  you  start  feeling  that  you  are  so  much  in  tune  with  existence  that 
even  to  hurt  a  small  leaf  on  a  tree  is  unimaginable.  One  cannot  hurt  anything  —  and  the 
whole  society  depends  on  violence.  It  depends  on  violence,  on  hurting,  on  creating 
suffering  for  people,  on  torture.  The  whole  society  is  violent,  so  the  heart  has  been 
bypassed,  and  by  and  by  a  shortcut  has  been  made  by  schools,  colleges,  universities. 

Their  whole  function  is  to  connect  your  energy  to  the  head,  and  not  to  allow  it  to  move 
towards  the  heart.  They  prevent  the  movement  of  energy  in  every  way  from  going 
towards  the  heart.  Then  a  person  is  efficient,  but  dead.  He  is  a  robot  —  mechanically 
perfect  —  humanly  absurd,  meaningless. 

Then  life  has  utility  but  no  significance,  because  all  significance  is  of  the  heart.  You  have 
a  social  life  but  you  don't  have  any  individuality,  because  all  individuality  is  in  the  heart. 
Then  you  are  simply  a  member  of  a  group.  You  are  a  Hindu,  Christian,  Indian,  American, 
Russian.  You  don't  exist;  you  exist  as  a  number.  When  an  Indian  dies,  who  dies?  — 
nobody.  When  an  American  dies,  just  a  number  dies.  You  can  replace  an  American  by 
another  American,  but  if  you  die,  you  are  irreplaceable;  you  cannot  be  replaced. 

An  American  can  be  replaced,  an  Indian  can  be  replaced,  a  Hindu  can  be  replaced.  They 
are  numbers  —  they  don't  have  any  souls.  But  if  you  die,  then  you  simply  die,  and  nothing 
can  be  done  about  it.  You  were  never  before  and  you  will  never  be  again.  You  are  simply 
unique,  unrepeatable. 

But  the  head  can  be  replaced.  Any  day  the  computer  is  going  to  replace  it.  But  it  is 
impossible  to  conceive  that  science  will  ever  be  able  to  replace  feeling.  Thinking  can  be 
replaced.  It  is  already  on  the  way  —  it  has  already  been  replaced.  The  technology  exists; 
now  it  is  only  a  matter  of  time.  Any  day  man  will  not  be  needed  the  way  he  has  been 
needed  up  to  now,  because  the  machine  will  be  more  efficient  than  you. 


Now  the  competition  is  going  to  be  between  the  machine  and  man.  Up  to  now  the 
competition  was  between  man  and  man.  Even  that  competition  has  created  much 
mechanicalness.  Now  the  competition  is  going  to  be  between  man  and  machine.  Then 
there  will  be  no  future  for  the  competitors,  the  politicians  —  head  people. 

But  the  heart  can  never  be  replaced.  And  when  I  say  heart,  I  don't  mean  the  physiological 
part.  I  mean  the  capacity  of  love,  the  capacity  to  love  and  the  capacity  to  receive  love... 
the  capacity  to  give  and  to  take  love. 

The  word  bhavana  means  all  this.  Become  more  and  more  a  feeling.  Drop  from  the  head 
downwards  and  start  living  through  the  heart.  It  is  risky,  certainly  risky,  because  a  man  of 
heart  can  never  succeed  in  anything  he  is  doomed  to  fail.  But  even  to  fail  as  a  man  of 
heart  is  more  tremendously  beautiful  than  to  succeed  as  a  head  person.  A  man  of  heart 
will  never  be  the  first  in  the  world  —  he  will  be  the  last.  But  Jesus  says  'Those  who  are  the 
last  in  this  world  will  be  the  first  in  my  kingdom  of  God.'  He's  talking  about  a  total 
reversal  of  values. 

In  this  world,  people  who  are  very  violent,  aggressive  —  maniacs  —  succeed.  Humble 
people  cannot  succeed.  Love  is  not  a  value. 

But  by  becoming  a  sannyasin,  you  are  entering  the  other  world  —  the  separate  reality,  the 
different  valuation,  the  different  outlook  towards  life.  Hereby  you  enter  into  the  kingdom 
of  God.... 

Once  you  settle,  things  will  start  happening. 

Deva  means  divine  and  naveena  means  newness  —  divine  newness.  And  in  fact  there  is 
nothing  old  under  the  sun.  Everything  is  so  new  that  if  we  don't  look  through  the  mind,  it 
is  absolutely  new  It  has  never  been  so  and  it  will  never  be  so  again.  Each  moment  is  so 
unique,  but  the  mind  is  repetitive,  so  if  you  look  through  the  mind,  you  feel  repetition  in 
life.  Put  the  mind  aside  and  everything  suddenly  bursts  into  newness.  God  is  new  —  as 
new  as  the  morning  dew,  as  new  as  a  leaf  just  sprouting...  always  young. 

And  that's  what  the  divine  quality  is.  To  remain  new  is  to  be  virtuous.  Not  to  get  old  is 
virtuous  —  not  that  the  body  will  not  get  old.  The  body  will  get  old,  but  one  can  remain 
always  new,  fresh,  vulnerable...  always  ready  to  be  surprised.  That  is  the  quality  of 
innocence.  Innocence,  and  nothing  else  except  innocence,  is  virtue.  A  calculated  virtue  is 
sin. 

So  I  give  you  this  name,  Naveena,  as  a  discipline.  This  is  going  to  be  your  discipline. 
Always  look  at  life  with  new  eyes.  Look  at  people  with  new  eyes.  Look  at  things  with 
new  eyes.  Never  bring  in  the  old.  Never  look  through  the  memory,  never  look  through 
experience.  They  are  all  clouds  which  surround  you,  and  through  which  you  lose  the 
freshness  of  life.  Always  make  way  and  look  direct,  immediate,  and  you  will  see  that 
everything  is  so  new. 

Because  of  that  newness  a  religious  person  is  never  bored.  Because  of  that  newness  a 
religious  person  is  always  like  a  child,  wandering  in  the  world  and  wondering.  Each 
moment  and  each  step  brings  so  many  mysteries...  it  is  a  continuous  surprise.  It  never 
ends.  One  never  becomes  a  knower. 

That  is  what  I  mean  when  I  say  be  new,  be  fresh.  Never  become  a  knower  —  always  be  a 
learner.  Always  remain  in  the  knowing;  never  become  a  knower.  Learning  is  beautiful, 
knowledge  is  ugly,  because  learning  never  corrupts  your  innocence  and  knowledge  is 
poisonous.  The  moment  you  know,  you  are  closed. 


So  go  on  dropping  knowledge  and  always  remain  learning,  learning.  Learning  is  open, 
knowledge  is  closed.  Don't  carry  any  conclusions,  and  life  will  bring  such  a  benediction. 
That  benediction  is  divine... 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  don't  feel  I'm  completely  here.  Sometimes  I  don't  feel  like  a 
disciple.] 

I  understand.  It  is  natural.  It  has  nothing  to  do  with  you,  mm?  Everybody  feels  that  there 
are  moments  when  he  is  not  with  me,  because  to  be  with  me  totally  is  almost  impossible. 
Only  in  rare  moments  are  you  a  disciple.  You  are  not  a  disciple  twenty-four  hours.  Even 
if  those  rare  moments  are  there,  it  is  enough,  more  than  enough;  more  than  one  can 
expect.  But  they  will  do.  By  and  by,  more  and  more  moments  will  be  coming  when  you 
will  feel  closer  and  closer  and  closer.  One  day,  disciplehood  happens. 

By  your  taking  sannyas  it  doesn't  mean  that  you  have  become  a  disciple.  It  simply  means 
that  you  have  given  me  an  indication  that  you  would  like  to  become  a  disciple.  It  is  just  a 
beginning  of  disciplehood,  not  the  end.  It  is  just  entry  into  it. 

So  there  will  be  many  negative  moments.  And  to  cope  with  me  is  difficult  because  I  am 
not  an  ordinary  teacher.  So  many  times  I  hurt  you;  I  hurt  you  so  much.  That  is  part  of  my 
whole  work:  I  have  to  hurt  you.  If  I  don't  hurt  you,  your  ego  will  never  be  gone. 

But  it  is  natural  that  you  will  feel  you  are  always  only  half  here.  To  be  fully  here  you  will 
become  enlightened. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #24 
Chapter  title:  None 

13  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609135 
ShortTitle:  PASSI024 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

Deva  means  divine  and  vishwa  means  the  universe  the  divine  universe.  And  that's  exactly 
how  it  is.  God  is  not  separate.  It  is  not  a  separate  reality.  The  whole  world  is  divine.  The 
creation  and  the  creator  are  not  two  things.  They  are  one,  a  single  unity. 

So  remember  it,  and  start  looking  for  God  everywhere.  Once  you  do,  you  will  start 
feeling  peace  there.  Looking  in  the  trees,  in  the  birds,  in  the  animals,  in  the  man,  in  the 
friend,  in  the  enemy,  in  success,  in  failure,  just  go  on  looking  for  Him.  And  you  will  find 
Him  everywhere. 

In  pleasure  He  is,  and  in  pain  also.  In  life,  in  death  also.  The  whole  universe,  the  whole 
existence,  is  divine.  Imbibe  that  spirit  as  deeply  as  possible. 

Anand  means  bliss  and  hansa  means  a  swan  —  swan  of  bliss.  The  swan  is  very  symbolic 
in  the  East,  mm?  —  the  whiteness  of  it,  the  purity,  the  innocence  of  it,  and  the  capacity  to 
fly  to  the  very  peaks  of  the  Himalayas.  The  land  of  the  swan  is  just  beyond  the 


Himalayas.  The  most  pure  lake  in  the  world  is  just  beyond  the  Himalayas  —  Mansorovar  - 
-  and  the  swans  live  there.  They  come  in  certain  seasons  and  then  they  go  back. 

So  the  word  swan  has  become  symbolic.  We  are  in  this  world,  but  not  of  it.  We  come 
here  but  we  have  to  go.  Our  home  is  beyond  the  Himalayas.  Our  home  is  the  pure 
innocence  of  Mansorovar.  Maybe  for  the  time  being  we  are  here,  but  we  don't  belong 
here.  So  remember  this:  that  this  world  —  the  so-called  world  of  desires,  ambitions, 
power,  money  —  is  not  the  real  world,  and  we  don't  belong  to  it.  Maybe  an  overnight  stay, 
but  in  the  morning  we  go.  That  is  the  meaning  of  the  word  hansa. 

And  keep  your  eyes  to  the  purest  virgin  peaks  of  the  Himalayas  —  untouched,  unviolated. 
The  highest  plenitude  should  always  be  remembered.  One  may  live  in  the  valley  —  one 
should  not  forget  the  peak.  One  may  live  in  darkness  —  one  should  not  forget  the 
morning.  Even  in  the  darkest  night,  remember  the  dawn  is  coming  closer,  closer. 

[Osho  suggested  he  do  the  Tathata  group  —  a  group  to  help  one  break  the  conditionings  of 
the  mind.] 

The  mind  is  a  by-product  of  the  society.  It  is  a  trick  of  the  society.  The  society  has  put  it 
inside  you  to  control  you.  It  is  like  electrodes,  and  it  can  be  manipulated  from  the  outside. 

[Osho  spoke  about  the  experiment  that  Delgado  did  with  a  bull.  By  placing  electrodes  in 
the  brain  of  the  bull,  Delgado  was  able  to  control  the  actions  of  the  bull. 

He  would  press  one  button  and  the  bull  would  immediately  become  angry  and  charge 
towards  Delgado.  When  the  bull  was  just  a  breathtaking  foot  away  from  him,  Delgado 
would  then  push  another  button,  bringing  the  bull  to  an  abrupt  halt.] 

The  same  has  been  the  trick  of  the  society.  Sooner  or  later,  at  least  in  Russia  or  in  China, 
they  will  try  the  electrode  with  the  human  brain  —  and  the  person  will  never  know.  When 
a  child  is  born,  with  a  small  operation  the  electrode  can  be  put  there.  The  child  will  never 
come  to  know;  he  will  think  that  he  is  doing  certain  things. 

But  the  same  has  been  done  in  a  very  primitive  way  already.  The  society  has  told  you  to 
do  this.  When  you  do  whatsoever  the  society  says  you  should  do,  it  appreciates  you, 
applauds,  awards.  And  when  the  society  says  not  to  do  this,  and  you  do  it,  it  punishes 
you,  throws  you  into  the  jail  or  threatens  you  with  hell  and  hellfire  and  eternal  torture. 
This  is  the  same  thing  but  in  a  very  primitive  way. 

It  takes  a  long  time  to  train  the  child  —  years  —  but  once  the  child  is  trained,  the  mind  is 
created.  Then  that  mind  goes  on  controlling  you.  You  don't  know  who  you  are  then.  The 
mind  always  comes  in.  It  won't  allow  you  to  be  free.  It  won't  allow  you  to  be  yourself.  It 
won't  allow  you  to  have  your  own  life.  It  goes  on  interfering  in  everything,  whatsoever 
you  do.  Unless  you  follow  it,  you  will  feel  guilty.  Unless  you  follow  it,  you  will  start 
repenting.  And  if  you  follow  it,  you  go  against  the  very  nature.  Then  too  you  don't  feel 
fulfilled. 

This  is  the  dilemma  that  humanity  is  in.  If  you  follow  the  mind,  you  remain  unfulfilled 
because  then  you  are  not  following  your  intrinsic  nature.  You  are  going  against  your  own 
tao,  against  your  own  dharma,  against  your  own  reality.  Then  you  feel  unfulfilled, 
frustrated.  If  you  don't  follow  this  mind,  you  feel  guilty.  That's  why  whenever  you  are 
happy,  you  always  find,  side  by  side,  a  certain  guilt  arising,  as  if  you  are  doing  something 


wrong.  When  you  are  unhappy,  everything  is  okay.  When  you  are  happy,  you  are  doing 
something  wrong.  Suddenly  the  mind  starts  creating  trouble  for  you. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  was  in  the  Enlightenment  Intensive  group,  and  I  just  discovered  that 
I  make  people  feel  guilty  because  I  try  too  hard. 

When  things  were  too  overpowering  in  the  room,  I  stop,  I  freeze.  If  somebody  is 
screaming,  I  can't  talk;  I'm  concerned  with  their  screaming. 1 

It  is  good.  We  are  not  aware  of  many  things  that  we  go  on  doing.  This  is  a  good  insight. 
By  our  attitudes  we  go  on  interfering  with  people  —  sometimes  so  unconsciously  that  you 
may  not  be  aware;  even  the  person  who  has  been  interfered  with  may  not  be  aware.  But 
just  by  our  gestures,  our  face,  just  by  our  vibes,  we  go  on  interfering. 

By  and  by  one  should  relax  and  stop  that,  because  to  interfere  in  somebody's  life  is  to 
interfere  in  his  freedom.  If  somebody  is  screaming,  that's  his  thing.  You  neither  have  to 
be  disturbed  nor  have  to  make  him  feel  guilty  that  you  cannot  talk  when  he  screams.  You 
are  not  distracted  by  his  screaming  —  you  are  distracted  by  your  interpretation  of  it.  So  if 
you  simply  listen  to  the  scream,  there  is  no  problem;  it  is  not  a  distraction.  It  will  be  there 
but  you  can  continue. 

That's  why  I  have  made  this  ashram  in  a  city.  I  could  have  gone  to  the  Himalayas.  There 
meditation  comes  very  easily,  but  then  it  is  lost  easily  also.  When  you  move  back  to  the 
plains,  it  is  lost.  I  am  sitting  just  amidst  a  town,  a  city  with  all  the  distractions  of  the  trains 
passing  by,  the  aeroplanes,  the  rickshaws  and  the  cars;  every  sort  of  disturbance  is  there. 

I  would  like  you  to  relax  in  this  disturbance,  because  in  fact  you  will  be  living  in  this 
disturbance  for  your  whole  life.  People  cannot  live  in  the  Himalayas  forever,  and  not 
everyone  can  live  there.  It  will  be  an  ugly  world  if  everybody  goes  to  the  Himalayas,  and 
it  will  be  a  danger  to  the  Himalayas  also;  it  will  be  destroyed. 

People  have  to  live  normal  lives.  Where  all  sorts  of  disturbances  are,  one  has  to  accept 
them.  One  has  to  remain  calm  and  quiet  amidst  them.  So  remember,  my  meditation  is  not 
a  method  of  concentration.  [See  Nothing  To  Lose  But  Your  Head,  Tuesday  February 
17th,  1976,  where  Osho  talks  about  concentration  as  opposed  to  meditation.  ] 
Concentration  is  very  narrow.  It  excludes  the  whole  world  and  includes  only  a  small  part 
of  it  —  for  example,  a  dot  on  the  wall.  You  concentrate  on  it,  so  in  your  consciousness 
only  the  dot  on  the  wall  is  included  and  everything  else  is  excluded.  This  is  unnatural. 
Consciousness  should  be  open  and  flowing  everywhere  in  all  directions. 

Meditation  is  all-inclusive.  It  does  not  exclude  anything.  It  absorbs  everything.  So  if  a 
train  passes  by,  a  meditator  will  simply  absorb  it.  He  will  simply  listen  to  it.  It  is 
beautiful;  there  is  nothing  wrong  with  it.  Your  mind  is  open...  the  train,  the  noise  —  then  it 
goes.  The  noise  vibrates  for  a  while,  it  echoes  for  a  while,  and  then  it  goes.  There  is 
nothing  to  be  worried  about.  But  if  you  are  trying  to  concentrate,  the  very  noise  takes  you 
away  from  your  concentration.  We  are  not  trying  to  concentrate  at  all,  so  nothing  can  be  a 
distraction.  Everything  has  to  be  included,  absorbed.  Just  try  it  —  and  you  will  feel  very 
beautiful. 

A  great  benediction  comes  to  a  person  who  becomes  all-inclusive.  You  listen  to  me  and  a 
bird  starts  screeching  —  you  listen  to  that  too.  The  train  passes....  [a  sound  of  a  loud  horn 
in  the  background]  this  horn  —  you  listen  to  that  too.  You  are  simply  open  from  every 


side.  You  are  a  circle  of  consciousness,  not  a  narrow  mind.  You  are  all-dimensional,  not 
one-dimensional. 

Concentration  is  one-dimensional,  a  very  poor  thing.  Meditation  is  all-dimensional.  But 
in  the  West  thousands  of  books  have  been  written  which  say  that  meditation  is 
concentration  —  which  is  absolutely  wrong.  Nothing  can  be  more  wrong  than  that 
statement.  They  are  opposites. 

So  just  be  all-inclusive.  In  the  next  group,  go  on  doing  your  thing  and  let  the  whole  world 
do  its  own  thing.  Just  relax  and  do  it.  Don't  do  it  with  a  tension.  If  you  do  it  with  a 
tension,  you  concentrate.  If  you  do  it  in  a  let-go,  there  is  no  problem  in  it. 


The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #25 
Chapter  title:  None 

14  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609145 
ShortTitle:  PASSI025 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[A  visitor  said  three  years  of  Freudian  psychoanalysis  helped  her,  but  also  made  things 
difficult.] 

That  too  is  true,  because  all  the  analytical  methods  are  in  a  way  incomplete.  They  help 
you  only  to  a  certain  extent  and  then  they  leave  you  in  a  limbo.  One  feels  that  something 
has  happened,  but  much  is  missing.  Something  seems  to  be  incomplete,  hanging, 
suspended.  But  that  is  natural  because  analysis  is  a  very  new  process.  It  just  started  with 
Freud;  it  is  not  even  one  hundred  years  old.  And  the  whole  method  was  developed  by  one 
man.  It  is  on  the  way,  it  is  growing. 

It  takes  centuries  for  a  certain  method  to  come  to  a  completion,  because  so  many  people 
have  to  be  experimented  upon,  and  millions  of  people  have  to  pass  through  the  method. 
They  help  the  method  to  grow.  The  method  helps  the  people  to  grow;  the  people  help  the 
method  to  grow.  Freud  has  just  given  a  framework  and  that  too  very  primitive.  It  is  bound 
to  be  so.  All  pioneers  are  primitive,  rudimentary,  crude;  the  polishing  comes  later  on.  The 
person  who  originated  the  method  dies,  but  the  method  continues  to  evolve.  Sometimes  it 
takes  centuries  for  a  certain  method  to  become  so  complete  that  once  you  pass  through  it, 
you  don't  have  any  feelings  of  incompletion  or  of  missing  something.  And  once  that 
happens,  that  means  that  the  process  has  become  a  circle.  It  gives  you  a  smoothness,  an 
ease,  an  at-homeness,  a  relaxation. 

Analysis  is  incomplete  unless  it  becomes  a  synthesis  too;  that's  what  is  lacking  and 
missing.  Analysis  is  good  for  the  beginning  —  one  has  to  diagnose  the  person,  the 
problems,  the  anxieties,  the  dreams.  The  situation  has  to  be  analysed,  diagnosed, 
categorised  —  but  that  is  just  the  beginning  of  the  work.  When  the  disease  is  absolutely 
known,  then  the  medicine  has  to  be  supplied,  and  then  the  person  starts  growing  as  a 
unity.  That  unity  is  missing.  Psychoanalysis  is  just  a  diagnosis  without  a  medicine. 


It  makes  you  clearly  aware  of  what  is  wrong,  but  then  what  to  do?  In  fact,  in 
understanding  what  is  wrong,  a  few  things  are  reconciled,  but  many  more  things  bubble 
up  from  the  unconscious.  A  few  things  are  solved;  many  more  things  become  questions. 
So  the  analytic  process  makes  you  a  little  aware  but  it  makes  you  a  little  more  anxious 
too,  because  now  you  know  many  more  things  of  which  you  were  never  aware. 

It  gives  you  a  certain  insight  into  your  being,  but  the  centre  is  not  revealed  through  it  — 
only  layers  of  the  mind  —  because  Freud  had  no  concept  of  the  soul,  so  he  thought  that 
there  are  layers  and  layers  of  the  mind  —  conscious,  subconscious,  unconscious  —  but 
nothing  beyond  that.  That  means  that  there  are  only  peripheries,  concentric  circles  and  no 
center.  A  body  cannot  exist  without  a  soul.  If  the  body  exists,  the  soul  must  exist,  because 
the  outside  cannot  exist  without  an  inside. 

If  the  outside  exists,  we  may  not  be  able  to  penetrate  the  inside,  but  the  inside  must  be 
there,  because  they  go  together  —  the  outside  and  the  inside.  The  body  is  nothing  but  the 
outside  soul,  and  the  soul  is  nothing  but  the  inside  body.  And  man  is  psychosomatic. 

But  Freud  was  a  little  too  much  of  the  nineteenth  century,  too  physiological,  too 
scientific.  He  had  no  religious  attitude  at  all,  so  the  centre  is  missing.  And  a  psychology 
is  complete  only  when  at  its  peak  it  becomes  a  religion,  because  that  is  the  very 
culmination.  A  tree  is  complete  only  when  it  flowers.  Otherwise  the  tree  can  be  there 
very  green  and  everything  good  and  beautiful,  but  still  barren  if  the  flowers  are  not  there. 
Something  tremendously  beautiful  will  be  missing.  In  a  way  it  looks  complete  —  the  tree 
is  there,  alive,  green,  its  branches  high  in  the  sky  —  but  something  is  missing. 

The  tree  has  not  yet  been  able  to  blossom,  to  overflow.  The  tree  has  not  yet  been  able  to 
produce  colour  and  song  and  ecstasy.  So  unless  psychology  becomes  a  religion,  it 
remains  like  a  tree  without  flowers. 

It  is  not  only  a  question  of  becoming  normal.  The  question  is  to  become  ecstatic.  To  be 
normal  is  not  worth  much.  The  question  is  not  only  how  to  get  adjusted  to  the  society  — 
adjustment  is  just  futile.  Unless  you  have  something  to  dance  for,  just  adjustment  will 
create  boredom.  The  whole  freudian  structure  is  how  to  make  you  normal,  and  how  to 
make  you  adjusted,  that's  all.  The  whole  thing  seems  to  be  oriented  towards  the  ill  person, 
not  the  whole  person.  The  approach  is  not  wholistic.  The  approach  is  that  somebody  is  ill, 
so  how  to  help  him  to  be  healthy  so  he  starts  working  as  a  normal  human  being. 

But  there  are  millions  of  normal  human  beings.  They  are  not  abnormal  in  any  other  way; 
they  are  absolutely  normal.  But  what  is  there  in  their  life?  —  desert-like,  boring.  They  are 
just  somehow  dragging.  Religion  opens  a  new  dimension  —  the  dimension  of  ecstasy,  the 
dimension  of  festivity.  Unless  you  can  dance,  life  is  not  worthwhile.  Unless  you  can  be  so 
grateful  and  so  blissful  that  you  can  say  that  even  a  single  moment  of  this  bliss  is  enough, 
a  single  moment  is  eternity  —  then  a  person  is  not  really  whole  and  healthy  and  holy. 

So  psychology  is  just  a  foundation.  When  the  temple  is  completed,  it  will  become 
religion.  In  the  East  we  have  tried.  It  was  psychology  in  the  beginning;  then  by  and  by  we 
failed.  For  centuries  we  felt  that  something  was  missing.  Then  a  totally  new  thing  arose 
out  of  it  —  and  that  is  religion. 

Eastern  religion  is  very  psychological.  It  is  a  misfortune  that  Freud  was  not  aware  of 
eastern  religion  at  all.  He  knew  only  Judaism  and  Christianity.  And  both  religions  are  not 
culminations,  have  not  really  come  of  age;  in  many  ways,  very  very  primitive.  If  Freud 
was  aware  of  Buddhism,  he  would  have  known  how  religion  arises  out  of  psychology, 


because  whatsoever  Freud  says  is  absolutely  relevant  in  Buddhism.  Buddhism  had  all  that 
Freud  says  —  and  more,  and  plus. 

[Osho  talked  about  T'ai  Chi....  ] 

When  doing  these  exercises,  feel  more  like  a  liquid,  Flowing  energy,  than  like  a  solid 
body.  Drop  the  concept  of  a  solid  body  and  help  to  focus  on  a  different  concept  of  liquid, 
fluid,  flowing  energy. 

Before  you  start  T'ai  Chi  start  doing  this  m  the  night  so  that  you  will  be  ready.  Before 
going  to  sleep,  just  sit  in  the  bed  and  start  feeling  that  you  are  energy,  and  that  energy  is 
flowing  all  around  your  body.  You  are  in  a  whirlpool  of  energy  —  ripples,  waves,  are 
coming.  Then  feel  that  the  whole  room  is  full  of  energy,  and  it  is  your  energy.  You  don't 
know  where  to  make  a  demarcation;  you  don't  know  where  you  stop  and  the  world  starts. 
Then  feel  that  the  energy  is  flowing  and  becoming  bigger  and  bigger  like  a  balloon.  Not 
only  is  it  in  the  room,  the  room  is  in  it,  the  whole  house  is  in  it.  You  have  become  a  flood. 
At  this  moment,  go  to  sleep.  This  will  take  not  more  than  three  to  five  minutes.  While 
you  are  falling  asleep,  continue  to  feel  like  a  flood  —  surging  waves  reaching  to  the  high 
heavens  and  the  whole  world  is  engulfed  in  you,  in  your  energy.  Just  fall  asleep 
meditating  on  it  so  it  will  enter  into  your  sleep  and  will  remain  there  as  a  shadow, 
hovering  around  you  the  whole  night. 

In  the  morning,  the  moment  you  feel  that  you  are  awake  now,  don't  open  your  eyes  —  first 
feel  again  the  flood-like  energy.  Connect  yourself  again  with  the  time  you  fell  asleep. 
Bridge  it  again.  Again  start  feeling  like  a  surging  wave,  an  ocean,  an  oceanic  energy. 

Just  for  three  to  five  minutes  Lying  in  the  bed,  and  then  get  up.  You  will  feel  very  very 
energised  and  vital.  You  will  feel  a  new  elan  rising  in  you,  a  new  life.  Continue  this  for  a 
few  days  and  then  go  into  T'ai  Chi.  Then  you  will  be  perfectly  ready. 

Chi  means  energy.  The  whole  concept  is  that  solidity  is  false  —  just  as  in  modern 
physics.  These  walls  are  not  real  —  it  is  just  pure  energy,  but  the  electrons  are  moving  so 
fast,  with  such  terrific  speed;  that's  why  it  appears  solid.  Just  like  a  fan  can  move  with 
such  a  terrific  speed  that  you  cannot  see  the  blades  separately.  So  it  gives  a  sense  of 
solidarity.  The  same  is  true  with  your  body.  What  modern  physics  has  come  to  know 
right  now,  Taoists  have  known  for  thousands  of  years  —  that  man  is  energy. 

It  is  said  about  a  T'ai  Chi  master  that  he  would  tell  his  disciples  to  attack  him,  and  he 
would  just  sit  in  the  middle.  Five  or  ten  disciples  would  rush  from  every  corner  of  the 
room  to  attack  him,  but  when  they  came  near  him,  they  would  feel  as  if  he  were  a  cloud; 
there  was  nothing  solid...  as  if  you  could  pass  through  him  and  you  would  not  be 
obstructed  by  anything. 

If  you  continue  this  idea  that  you  are  energy,  it  is  possible  to  become  just  like  a  cloud 
with  no  boundaries,  melting  and  merging  with  existence.  This  anecdote  is  not  just  an 
anecdote.  With  a  man  who  has  gone  deep  into  T'ai  Chi,  it  is  very  easily  possible  that 
when  you  come  across  him,  you  will  not  find  any  obstruction;  you  can  simply  go  through 
him.  You  cannot  hurt  him  because  he  is  not  there  to  be  hurt. 

So  for  these  ten  days  before  you  start  T'ai  Chi,  imbibe  the  spirit. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #26 


Chapter  title:  None 

16  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609165 
ShortTitle:  PASSI026 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[A  sannyasin  had  previously  written  to  Osho  about  her  sexuality,  which  seemed  to  have 
become  more  intensified  lately  —  mainly  been  through  auto-erotic  activity.  Guilt  feelings 
surfaced  from  childhood,  about  its  being  a  perversion.  Osho  checked  her  energy.] 

I  told  you  to  remain  celibate  for  a  few  days  specifically  for  this  purpose,  because  once 
you  are  celibate  for  a  few  days,  energy  pools;  it  becomes  a  reservoir.  And  when  it  is  a 
reservoir,  then  you  can  easily  know  where  it  wants  to  move,  how  it  wants  to  be  creative, 
what  direction  it  wants  to  take.  A  person  who  is  using  his  sexual  energy  continuously, 
never  knows  what  the  energy  itself  intends  to  do.  And  these  are  two  different  things. 

What  your  mind  intends  to  do  is  one  thing  —  what  your  energy  intends  to  do  is  totally 
different.  If  they  meet,  good  —  if  they  don't  meet,  then  there  is  trouble.  It  is  just  a 
coincidence  ordinarily  —  their  meeting  and  their  going  hand  in  hand.  Otherwise  out  of 
one  hundred  cases,  almost  ninety-nine  percent  of  people  miss  the  harmony  between  their 
mind  and  their  energy.  The  mind  goes  on  bossing,  goes  on  judging,  evaluating, 
condemning,  saying,  'This  is  good  —  that  is  bad.'  The  mind  is  a  priest,  and  a  catholic 
priest  at  that.  The  mind  is  a  puritan...  absolutely  a  Victorian. 

And  energy  is  just  a  natural  phenomenon.  It  does  not  know  any  man-made  moralities.  It 
is  amoral.  It  is  neither  moral  nor  immoral;  it  is  amoral.  It  is  beyond  morality  or  below 
morality.  But  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  morality  and  moral  inhibitions,  condemnations, 
evaluations,  oughts,  shoulds;  it  knows  nothing.  It  is  simply  like  a  river  rushing  towards 
the  ocean. 

The  energy  is  continuously  rushing  towards  orgasm.  If  the  mind  interferes,  there  is 
corruption.  Then  it  is  very  rarely  that  the  intention  of  the  mind  and  the  intention  of  the 
energy  will  meet.  Then  there  is  frustration.  You  are  pulled  apart...  you  are  tom  apart;  a 
person  starts  falling  into  pieces.  That's  what  has  happened  to  the  whole  humanity  —  all 
have  become  Humpty  Dumptys. 

I  had  this  very  thing  in  mind  when  I  told  you  to  remain  celibate  for  a  few  days.  Once  you 
are  celibate  for  a  few  days,  the  energy  becomes  so  powerful  that  the  mind  cannot  control 
it.  The  mind  remains  very  impotent  before  it.  And  the  energy  is  so  much  that  it  carries  the 
mind  with  it.  It  has  to  go  with  it.  Condemning,  cursing,  but  it  has  to  go  with  it.  It  is  a 
sheer  force,  and  the  mind  cannot  do  anything  with  it.  Whether  willing  or  unwilling,  it  has 
to  go  with  it. 

So  this  is  the  natural  spontaneous  intention  of  your  energy.  Whatsoever  is  happening, 
allow  it  and  drop  all  condemnations,  drop  all  judgements.  Simply  go  with  it.  With  no 
mind  go  with  it.  Remember,  energy  is  always  pure.  Its  purity  is  invulnerable.  The  mind  is 
always  impure.  Its  impurity  is  unchangeable.  So  drop  the  mind,  drop  its  bossing,  its  effort 
to  dictate,  dominate.  Just  go  with  the  energy  wherever  it  leads. 


Many  things  will  happen,  and  you  will  be  surprised  that  they  are  happening,  but  they 
have  to  happen,  because  energy  never  does  anything  wrong.  It  cannot  do,  because  it  does 
not  know  what  is  right,  what  is  wrong.  It  simply  does  that  which  is  natural.  For  energy, 
the  natural  is  right,  the  unnatural  is  wrong.  It  only  believes  in  God's  law.  It  doesn't  believe 
in  any  man-made  laws. 

This  is  the  first  thing  to  understand  —  drop  your  mind.  It  has  no  business  to  interfere.  Go 
with  the  energy,  and  whatsoever  form  it  takes,  it  is  good  and  beautiful.  Whatsoever  form 
it  takes,  never  say  that  it  is  perverted,  wrong,  immoral,  this  and  that.  These  are  all  mind 
trips.  The  mind  is  trying  to  force  its  own  ideology  on  the  energy.  The  energy  is  innocent  - 

-  simply  go  with  it. 

Once  you  start  going  with  it,  many  things  will  happen  and  many  things  will  disappear. 
Soon  —  within  two,  three  months  —  your  energy  will  become  a  sheer  delight.  But  if  the 
mind  goes  on  interfering,  it  will  take  a  very  long  time.  From  your  very  childhood  the 
mind  has  been  interfering  with  it.  It  has  never  accepted  its  naturalness.  That  is  the 
problem  —  not  the  form  that  the  energy  is  taking;  that  is  not  the  problem. 

The  problem  is  coming  from  the  mind,  not  from  the  energy  itself.  The  mind  wants  to 
have  its  own  way,  and  now  that  the  energy  is  there,  overflowing,  the  mind  cannot  control 
it.  When  energy  is  less,  the  mind  can  control  it.  When  you  go  on  throwing  your  energy 
every  day,  then  the  mind  is  more  powerful.  Then  the  river  is  like  a  very  small  spring  and 
it  can  be  channelised  by  the  mind  howsoever  it  wants.  But  right  now  it  is  like  a  flood,  it 
won't  listen  —  and  there  is  no  need  for  it  to  listen. 

In  the  beginning  you  will  find  the  mind  cursing,  condemning,  judging,  but  simply  don't 
listen  —  listen  to  the  energy.  In  the  beginning  you  may  find  that  it  is  maddening,  but  that 
will  disappear.  That  too  is  because  of  the  mind.  Because  the  mind  has  never  allowed  the 
energy  any  freedom,  when  you  allow  freedom,  it  is  maddening.  It  is  just  like  when  a  man 
who  has  been  forced  to  fast  for  many  years,  or  has  been  given  only  a  very  small  amount 
of  food,  who  has  been  always  starving,  half-starving,  is  suddenly  given  freedom  to  eat 
whatsoever  he  wants  to.  Then  he  goes  mad.  He  becomes  an  obsessive  eater.  But  the 
problem  is  still  not  with  the  person.  The  problem  comes  from  the  past. 

So  something  may  be  there  like  an  obsession.  You  will  feel  that  something  is  happening 
obsessively.  Don't  be  worried.  It  is  just  a  dam  that  the  mind  has  built;  it  is  being  broken 
by  the  flood.  So  there  will  be  chaos  for  a  few  days,  but  nothing  to  be  worried  about.  As  I 
am  watching,  your  state  is  better  than  ever.  You  just  have  to  drop  this  last  barrier  of 
evaluation.  Simply  drop  it. 

And  remember  one  thing  —  whatsoever  makes  you  happy  is  good.  The  whole  criterion  of 
good,  is  happiness;  nothing  else.  Never  forget  about  it.  And  whatsoever  form  the  sexual 
energy  takes  is  never  perverted  unless  it  becomes  harmful  to  somebody.  To  me 
perversion  only  means  that  you  become  a  menace  to  others.  If  you  hurt  and  harm  others, 
if  you  become  a  sadist  or  something,  then  it  is  perversion.  But  when  you  are  not  harming 
anybody  —  you  simply  delight  in  your  energy  —  there  is  no  problem  at  all.  It  is  your 
energy  —  you  have  to  be  happy  with  it. 

So  don't  go  as  if  being  dragged.  Go  dancing.  Don't  go  reluctantly.  Surrender...  trust  the 
energy  —  because  it  is  life,  it  is  God.  And  trust  absolutely.  Just  one  condition  has  to  be 
remembered  —  one  should  not  become  harmful,  violent,  aggressive,  towards  anybody 
else,  that's  all.  Otherwise  everything  is  permissible.  If  you  feel  happy  —  it  is  your  energy  - 

-  feel  as  happy  as  you  want  to.  Go  with  it  wholeheartedly. 


For  one  month  simply  go  wholeheartedly  with  it.  Relax  completely.  And  after  one  month, 
tell  me.  Everything  is  going  well.  What  is  needed  is  happening.  Within  these  two,  three 
months,  your  energy  will  come  to  a  real  natural  flow.  All  these  things  that  are  happening 
will  disappear.  They  are  not  going  to  remain  there  forever.  They  are  because  of  past 
starvation. 

Will  it  be  possible  to  trust  the  energy  and  to  go  into  it? 

[A  sannyasin  said  the  vipassana  course  was  unbelievable.] 

It  is  unbelievable,  because  the  mind  is  not  aware  of  millions  of  things  which  are 
available.  The  mind  goes  on  living  in  a  rut.  It  goes  on  moving  in  the  same  repetitive 
circles  and  it  has  become  oblivious  of  the  whole  reality.  It  cannot  even  dream  about  the 
real.  It  has  lost  all  contact.  It  has  become  closed,  a  short-circuit.  But  it  goes  on  thinking  in 
its  own  terms  and  goes  on  chewing  the  same  thing  again  and  again. 

So  reality  is  always  unbelievable  to  the  mind.  And  reality  is  enormous,  vast.  There  is  no 
beginning  and  no  end  to  it.  It  is  infinity.  The  more  you  know,  the  more  you  understand 
that  you  know  nothing.  The  more  you  know,  the  more  doors  open  for  you  to  be  known. 
You  reach  one  peak,  another  peak  is  there  waiting  for  vou  as  a  challenge.  And  this  is  non¬ 
ending. 

But  this  has  been  very  beautiful.  Remember  it  always.  We  are  missing  many  things  in  life 
just  because  the  mind  won't  believe,  just  because  the  mind  has  a  certain  fixed,  obsessive 
attitude.  It  only  opens  itself  to  certain  things  and  then  closes. 

If  you  bring  four  persons  into  this  garden,  they  will  not  see  the  same  things.  If  you  bring  a 
carpenter,  he  will  see  in  the  trees  the  possibility  of  furniture  —  doors,  chairs,  tables.  If  you 
bring  a  poet,  he  cannot  even  imagine  chairs  and  furniture  in  the  trees.  He  will  see  poetry. 
He  will  see  the  sheer  poetry  of  the  earth,  the  ambition  of  the  earth  trying  to  reach  to 
heaven.  If  you  bring  a  lover,  he  will  see  something  else.  If  you  bring  a  painter,  he  will  see 
something  else.  He  will  see  colours  and  colours.  Only  colours  exist,  only  colours  are  real. 
And  if  you  bring  a  scientist,  he  will  see  something  else.  He  will  immediately  start 
labelling  things  —  this  tree  belongs  to  this  species,  to  this  geography,  to  this  climate.  But 
nobody  will  be  in  the  same  garden  —  and  they  are  all  standing  in  the  same  garden.  We  see 
whatsoever  our  mind  allows  us  to  see. 

In  the  old  scriptures  —  the  bible,  the  koran,  the  vedas  —  if  you  read,  it  seems  as  if  God 
used  to  walk  on  earth.  The  encounter  seems  to  be  so  real.  Moses  meeting  God  on  Mount 
Sinai  —  it  is  a  face-to-face  talk.  Now  it  seems  like  a  parable  or  a  story  symbolic  maybe, 
but  it  cannot  be  real  We  have  lost  contact  with  that  reality.  God  used  to  walk  on  earth.  He 
Still  does,  but  we  by-pass  Him  because  we  have  lost  the  capacity  to  see  Him.  A  Moses  is 
needed.  Mount  Sinai  is  still  there.  God  is  Still  standing  in  the  burning  bush,  shouting... 
but  there  is  nobody  to  hear.  A  Moses  is  needed  to  hear. 

Reality  is  incredible,  tremendous,  but  our  minds  are  very  tiny,  very  very  tiny,  very  atomic 
—  as  if  there  is  just  a  small  hole  in  the  wall  and  from  that  hole  you  are  looking  at  the  sky. 
You  will  have  a  certain  glimpse  but  we  remain  poor  unnecessarily. 

That's  what  meditation  is  all  about.  It  is  an  effort  to  look  at  reality  without  this  hole  of  the 
mind,  this  small,  tiny  hole  of  the  mind.  To  look  at  reality  without  the  mind,  to  push  the 
mind  aside,  and  to  face  reality  without  the  mind.  Immediately  the  enormous  opens  its 
doors.  Suddenly  you  are  there  amidst  abundance. 


It  is  unbelievable.  So  remember  it,  and  believe  in  the  unbelievable  —  then  you  will 
become  more  expansive.  Never  believe  only  in  the  believable  because  that  makes  you 
narrow.  The  believable  is  not  worth  much.  Believe  in  the  unbelievable.  That  is  the 
meaning  of  trust  and  faith. 

There  is  a  very  famous  saying  of  a  Christian  mystic,  Tertullian:  'I  believe  in  God  because 
He  is  impossible.'  This  is  something  beautiful  —  'I  believe  in  God  because  He  is  absurd.  I 
believe  in  God  because  He  is  unbelievable.'  This  is  something  tremendously  beautiful. 
Before  Tertullian  other  Christian  mystics  just  look  foolish  —  people  trying  to  prove  God, 
finding  out  how  many  proofs  are  there,  how  to  prove  God,  how  to  make  God  a  syllogism. 
He  is  not  a  syllogism.  He  is  a  song,  a  mad  song.  You  cannot  put  Him  in  a  logical  way.  He 
is  too  big  for  logic.  Tertullian  is  the  only  real  mystic  in  Christianity  who  is  almost  as  zen- 
like  as  Bodhidharma.  Mm?  —  'I  believe  in  God  because  He  is  unbelievable.'  So  believe  in 
the  unbelievable. 

[The  sannyasin  answers:  The  unbelievable  is  so  powerful  that  there  is  no  choice  but  to 
believe  in  it.] 

Yes,  that's  right.  That's  right.  That's  absolutely  right.  But  remember  it  —  that's  the  point. 
Because  we  tend  to  forget  it  again  and  again.  When  the  unbelievable  happens  it  is  really 
so  powerful  that  there  is  no  way,  no  alternative  —  you  have  to  believe  in  it.  But  back 
home  —  back  in  the  mind  —  it  becomes  sheer  absurd-ity.  One  starts  suspecting  oneself. 
One  starts  suspecting,  'Was  I  under  an  illusion,  a  hypnosis,  or  was  it  a  dream?'  Remember 
in  those  moments  when  suspicion  arises  —  that's  what  I  mean.  Remember  in  those 
moments  when  the  mind  comes  back  and  starts  creating  suspicions  and  doubts,  then  too 
say  to  the  mind,  'Yes,  you  are  right.  God  is  not  possible,  but  that  is  why  I  believe  in  Him. 
That's  my  "why".' 

Then  the  mind  is  at  a  loss.  You  have  taken  away  the  very  ground  from  underneath  it.  If 
you  say  to  the  mind,  I  believe  in  God  because  He  is  unbelievable,  because  He  is 
unprovable,  because  He  is  illogical,’  then  you  have  taken  away  the  very  life  of  the  mind, 
because  that  is  the  whole  trick.  The  mind  can  force  you  to  doubt.  It  says  that  this  is  not 
rational.  But  tell  the  mind,  ’Who  says  that  it  is  rational?  Who  is  arguing  about  it?  It  is 
irrational  —  you  are  right.' 

And  that  is  the  beauty  —  that  it  is  irrational.  If  God  were  rational,  it  would  not  be  worth 
much.  Then  it  would  be  a  dictum  of  science,  an  axiom  of  mathematics  or  a  syllogism  of 
logic.  You  cannot  pray  to  a  syllogism.  You  cannot  make  a  temple  around  a  syllogism. 
You  cannot  dance  because  a  syllogism  is  perfectly  right,  mathematical,  logical. 

It  is  good  that  God  is  improbable.  One  can  dance...  one  can  fall  in  love.  One  can  be  a  fool 
because  God  is  impossible  and  unprovable. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #27 
Chapter  title:  None 

17  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609175 
ShortTitle:  PASSI027 


Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

Deva  means  divine  and  pankaj  means  lotus  —  a  divine  lotus.  The  lotus  is  very  symbolic  in 
the  East  because  it  comes  out  of  dirty  mud,  and  yet  so  beautiful,  so  graceful,  so  other¬ 
worldly...  is  born  of  the  earth  but  does  not  belong  to  the  earth.  It  is  unearthly. 

So  one  has  to  be  like  a  lotus  —  rooted  in  the  earth  but  not  defined  and  confined  by  the 
earth.  Rooted,  well-rooted  to  the  earth,  but  still  seeking  the  sky,  going  higher  and  higher. 
Not  against  the  earth  —  with  the  cooperation  of  the  earth.  Not  in  a  denial  —  the  earth  has 
not  to  be  denied.  It  has  not  to  be  negated.  There  should  be  no  'no'  in  a  religious  person. 
The  yes  should  be  utterly  total.  The  earth  has  to  be  accepted  as  a  gift,  but  one  should  not 
remain  confined  to  it.  One  should  grow  beyond  it.  So  there  should  be  a  rootedness  and 
yet  a  transcendence.  That  is  the  meaning  of  the  lotus. 

It  remains  rooted  in  the  earth,  it  is  being  nourished  by  the  earth,  yet  it  is  an  alchemical 
change,  a  mutation.  If  you  simply  see  the  lotus,  you  cannot  imagine  how  it  can  be  born 
out  of  ordinary  mud.  It  is  almost  impossible  to  conceive.  When  you  see  a  Buddha,  it  is 
impossible  to  believe  how  this  can  happen  in  an  ordinary  human  being.  With  the  body, 
with  the  bones,  with  the  blood,  how  is  it  possible  —  this  lotus  of  consciousness?  A 
Buddha  is  an  impossibility.  It  happens  but  it  is  unbelievable. 

So  remember  that  —  that  wherever  we  are,  our  whole  being  consists  of  surpassing,  of 
transcending.  So  wherever  you  are,  go  on  transcending  yourself.  Friedrich  Nietzsche  used 
to  say  that  man  is  the  only  animal  who  tries  to  surpass  himself.  So  the  very  effort  to 
surpass  is  human.  That's  what  makes  you  a  human  being  —  that  you  are  constantly 
dropping  yourself,  your  past,  your  boundaries,  and  trying  to  go  higher,  trying  to  become 
more  expansive,  more  huge,  more  indefinite,  more  infinite,  more  uncertain,  more 
nebulous.  A  moment  comes  when  you  are  just  a  cloud  of  unknowing.  In  that  moment 
your  inner  lotus  flowers  and  for  the  first  time  you  see  the  unearthly  beauty  happening  in 
the  very  earthly.  The  soul  arising  out  of  the  body.  God  happening  in  time. 

[A  sannyasin  says:...  there's  too  much  to  say.] 

That's  right.  And  fear  is  natural.  Being  close  to  me,  it  is  natural  to  be  scared.  You  are  just 
close  by  a  precipice.  If  you  fall,  you  are  gone  forever.  And  the  attraction  to  fall  into  the 
abyss  is  tremendous,  hence  the  fear. 

When  you  come  to  me,  you  come  to  die  in  me.  And  unless  you  die,  you  will  not  be 
reborn.  So  fear  is  absolutely  natural.  Accept  it,  and  go  on  moving  in  spite  of  it. 

These  two  things  have  to  be  remembered.  These  are  the  two  extremes.  Either  people  start 
repressing  their  fear  and  start  trying  to  impose  some  bravery,  courage  —  which  is  going  to 
be  false  because  deep  underneath  there  will  be  fear  —  or  people  become  so  afraid  that 
they  become  paralysed;  then  the  fear  becomes  a  hin-drance.  In  both  ways  you  will  be 
stuck  with  fear.  The  right  way  is  to  accept  it  so  that  there  is  no  need  to  repress.  Accept  its 
naturalness  —  that  is  natural,  bound  to  be  so.  Accept  the  fact  of  it  and  still  go  ahead, 
bypass  it.  Don't  repress  it  and  don't  be  hindered  by  it.  In  spite  of  it,  go  on  moving. 
Trembling,  of  course,  because  the  fear  is  there,  but  go  on  moving.  Trembling,  but  go  on 
rushing  towards  the  abyss. 


Don't  impose  fearlessness,  because  an  imposed  fearlessness  is  a  pseudo  thing,  a 
counterfeit.  It  has  no  value.  So  just  be  natural,  authentic,  sincere.  Take  note  that  the  fear 

is,  Still,  but  still  go  on.  That's  what  I  mean  when  I  say  go  in  spite  of  the  fear.  Trembling  — 
okay;  shaking  —  okay,  go  on.  Tremble  like  a  small  new  leaf  in  the  strong  wind. 

Have  you  seen  the  strength  of  a  new  leaf?  So  fragile,  so  weak,  and  yet  so  strong.  Even 
when  the  storm  is  raging,  the  leaf  goes  on  trembling  —  but  have  you  seen  its  beauty?  The 
fear  is  there,  because  fear  is  always  there  when  something  is  alive.  Only  in  a  dead  thing 
there's  no  fear.  The  fear  is  there,  the  storm  is  raging,  and  the  leaf  is  small  and  delicate, 
tender,  soft.  It  can  be  crushed  very  easily,  but  have  you  seen  its  strength?  Still  it  goes  on 
dancing,  singing.  Still  it  goes  on  trusting  in  life. 

So  be  soft,  be  tender,  be  delicate,  be  afraid,  but  never  be  hindered  by  it  and  don't  repress 

it.  Accept  the  limitations,  the  human  limitations,  but  still  go  on  working  beyond  them. 
That's  how  one  grows,  mm?  And  welcome  home! 

Deva  means  divine  and  saguna  means  with  form.  Your  mother's  name  is  Nirgun.  Nirgun 
means  without  form,  without  attribute.  Saguna  means  with  attribute,  with  form. 

In  the  East  we  conceive  of  God  in  two  ways  —  one  with  form.  The  whole  universe  is  God 
with  form,  saguna  —  with  attributes,  qualities,  colour,  taste.  You  can  touch  it,  you  can 
hold  it  in  your  hands.  You  can  kiss  it.  You  can  embrace  it.  It  is  available  to  the  senses. 
That  which  senses  can  understand,  eyes  can  see  and  ears  can  hear,  and  hands  can  touch 
and  the  heart  can  feel.  You  can  love.  You  can  worship.  This  is  God  in  form. 

Then  another  concept  of  God  is  formless,  nirguna.  It  means  the  formless  beyond  —  which 
cannot  be  seen,  which  cannot  be  touched,  which  is  untouchable,  unseen,  unknown;  not 
only  unknown  but  unknowable.  There  is  no  way  for  the  senses  to  approach  it.  Even  the 
mind  cannot  approach  it.  You  reach  it  only  when  all  the  senses  are  dropped  and  the  mind 
is  dropped,  and  you  yourself  lose  all  form.  In  deep  ecstasy,  in  samadhi,  when  you  are 
completely  formless  yourself,  then  you  come  to  know  it. 

The  devotee  believes  in  the  saguna.  The  worshipper,  the  man  who  goes  to  the  church  and 
to  the  temple  and  to  the  mosque,  believes  in  the  saguna,  in  God  that  is  available,  humanly 
available.  And  there  are  meditators  who  are  not  devotees,  who  believe  in  the  nirguna  — 
the  God  who  is  always  beyond.  You  have  to  drop  everything  and  you  have  to  become  a 
zero,  absolute  emptiness,  then  you  come  to  know  it. 

I  have  given  your  mother  the  name  nirguna  because  nirguna  is  the  mother  of  saguna, 
because  that  form  comes  from  the  formless.  This  whole  world  comes  from  the  formless. 
The  original  source  is  formless  and  millions  of  forms  arise  from  it.  So  the  formless  is  the 
mother  and  with  the  form  is  the  son. 

God  is  formless,  Christ  is  the  form.  So  between  you  two,  it  is  complete.  The  whole 
philosophy  is  complete,  mm? 

[To  a  visitor  Osho  says:] 

It  is  rarely  that  I  give  sannyas  without  asking.  You  may  be  the  first  sannyasin  to  whom  I 
am  giving  it  without  asking,  because  I  can  see  that  you  are  absolutely  ready.  You  may 
know  it,  you  may  not  know  it. 

You  have  been  working  for  it  through  many  lives.  Something  is  ripe,  ready  to  fall.  So  just 
become  part  of  the  orange  people  and  allow  things  to  happen. 


This  will  be  your  name:  Ma  Deva  Ashu. 

Deva  means  divine  and  ashu  means  quick  —  one  who  approaches  the  divine  very  quickly. 
And  it  has  been  quick  so  you  will  have  to  get  adjusted  to  it  a  little,  mm?  Something  to 
say? 

[Ashu  answers:  I  was  going  to  tell  you  that  I  was  full  of  anger.] 

Full  of  anger?  Nothing  wrong  in  it.  It  is  pure  energy.  It  can  be  transformed  in  any  way.  It 
can  become  love.  It  can  become  compassion.  It  can  become  the  very  force  upon  which 
you  can  ride  and  move  towards  God. 

Anger  simply  means  energy  stuck,  energy  not  finding  a  way  to  move  and  to  be  creative. 
That's  what  anger  is.  Anger  is  not  really  anger;  it  is  just  stuck  energy...  a  river  which 
wants  to  move  towards  the  ocean  but  cannot  find  the  way  —  so  many  rocks. 

When  energy  is  stuck  and  becomes  stale,  it  becomes  poisonous.  It  needs  to  be  flowing.  A 
flowing  energy  is  pure,  just  like  a  flowing  river.  When  the  river  is  not  flowing,  then  it 
becomes  stale,  dirty,  angry.  So  nothing  is  wrong.  It  is  perfectly  okay.  We  will  use  that 
energy.  Dance  more,  meditate  more,  do  a  few  groups,  and  within  a  month  you  will  feel 
your  anger  simply  gone.  And  you  will  feel  very  grateful  to  your  anger  because  it  will 
release  much  energy  that  will  make  you  more  loving,  more  happy,  more  blissful. 

A  person  who  has  no  anger  has  nothing  to  grow  with.  He  is  impotent.  A  person  who  has 
tremendous  anger  has  much  potentiality.  A  person  who  has  no  anger  is  simply  dull.  He 
has  no  intelligence.  The  latest  findings  of  psychologists  say  that  children  who  are  angry 
are  more  intelligent.  The  children  who  are  not  angry  are  a  little  stupid.  They  are  a  little 
dormant,  retarded.  Anger  is  pure  fuel.  It  can  be  used  in  many  ways.  If  it  is  not  used,  then 
it  is  dangerous.  Then  it  can  become  destructive.  If  it  is  used,  it  becomes  creativity. 

Leave  it  to  me.  Simply  do  what  I  say  and  within  one  month  it  will  be  gone.  Within  a 
month  the  old  will  be  gone  and  the  new  will  have  entered. 

And  you  have  to  be  quick!  You  have  to  be  true  to  your  name,  Ashu! 

Deva  means  divine  and  shobha  means  elegance  —  divine  elegance,  divine  grace,  divine 
grandeur  or  divine  splendour,  will  it  be  easy  to  pronounce? 

And  try  to  become  one,  mm?  Everybody's  destiny  is  that  —  to  become  a  divine  elegance, 
and  unless  we  attain  to  that,  we  remain  frustrated.  Nothing  else  will  satisfy  unless  one 
becomes  a  divine  grace.  Everything  else  is  just  not  enough.  One  can  have  as  much  money 
as  one  desires,  and  Still  one  remains  poor;  the  beggar  continues.  One  can  have  as  much 
power  as  possible,  Still  one  remains  impotent,  because  all  that  we  can  accumulate  outside 
cannot  help  us  grow  inside.  The  inner  growth  is  the  real  need,  and  no  substitute  can  be  of 
any  help. 

Unless  one  becomes  more  and  more  divine  each  day,  one  can  never  be  content.  That's 
why  there  is  so  much  frustration  in  the  world.  People  are  here  to  become  gods,  and  they 
are  trying  to  become  something  else  which  falls  very  short  of  the  goal.  So  if  you  don't 
achieve,  you  are  frustrated.  If  you  achieve,  then  too  you  are  frustrated  because  your 
destiny  is  far  beyond.  You  belong  to  the  stars.  Just  make  it  a  point  to  remember 
continuously  that  this  is  your  destiny. 

That's  why  I  change  the  name  and  I  give  a  new  name.  The  new  name  will  become  a  new 
remembrance.  Whenever  somebody  calls  you  Shobha,  you  will  remember  that  you  have 


to  become  one.  Unless  that  is  happening,  you  are  missing  the  opportunity  of  life.  You 
have  to  flower  that  way.  And  if  one  is  continuously  reminded  of  it,  it  starts  happening, 
because  it  is  only  a  question  of  remembrance.  We  are  divine  —  we  just  have  to  remember 
it. 

And  remember  —  because  you  are  a  student  of  anthropology  —  unless  you  understand  the 
divine  element  in  man,  you  will  not  be  able  to  understand  man  at  all,  because  man  is 
something  like  a  bridge.  Man  is  not  a  being  in  himself.  Man  is  a  process.  That's  where 
anthropology  goes  on  missing  something.  You  cannot  understand  a  process  unless  you 
understand  the  goal,  because  the  process  is  goal-oriented.  If  you  don't  understand  the  goal 
and  you  simply  try  to  understand  the  process,  it  will  look  meaningless. 

For  example,  a  train  is  going  somewhere.  Just  in  the  middle  you  start  studying  the  train. 
You  don't  know  from  where  it  is  coming  and  to  where  it  is  going.  Then  the  whole  thing 
will  look  absurd.  Why  are  these  people  sitting  here?  What  are  they  doing?  Once  you 
know  that  the  train  is  destined  towards  some  goal,  things  start  falling  into  a  whole,  into  a 
pattern. 

Man  is  a  process,  a  bridge  —  a  bridge  between  the  animal  and  the  divine,  a  bridge 
between  the  earth  ar  d  the  sky,  a  bridge  between  the  known  and  the  unknown,  a  bridge 
between  the  visible  and  the  invisible,  the  finite  and  the  infinite,  a  bridge  between  the 
material  and  the  spiritual.  Unless  this  is  understood,  accounted  for,  anthropology  remains 
superficial.  Then  you  cannot  understand  man,  because  man  is  not  an  animal  like  a  dog. 
You  can  understand  a  dog.  Have  you  observed  that  a  dog  is  born  complete?  You  cannot 
say  to  one  dog  that  he  is  less  than  he  should  be.  All  dogs  are  similarly  dogs.  You  cannot 
say  to  one  dog  that  he  is  doggier  than  another  dog  —  they  are  all  simply  dogs.  But  you  can 
say  to  a  man  that  he  is  not  human  enough.  You  can  say  to  a  man  that  he  is  not  man  yet, 
but  you  cannot  say  the  same  thing  to  a  dog.  Dogs  are  all  dogs;  they  are  already.  Born, 
they  are  complete. 

They  are  not  processed.  They  have  a  being.  The  dog  has  a  being.  The  rosebush  has  a 
being. 

Man  has  no  being.  That  is  man's  anxiety  and  his  grandeur,  both;  his  worry  —  that  he  has 
no  being.  He  is  just  in  between  two  abysses  hanging  like  a  bridge.  He  does  not  know  who 
he  is. 

A  dog  is  perfectly  aware  of  who  he  is...  instinctively  aware  of  who  he  is.  He  is  not 
seeking  his  identity.  You  have  never  seen  a  dog  with  an  identity  crisis.  They  don't  have 
any  psychoanalysts  and  they  don't  have  any  therapies  —  nothing.  They  are  simply 
whatsoever  they  are.  A  mango  tree  is  a  mango  tree.  A  rose  is  a  rose  is  a  rose.  But  a  man? 
—  you  cannot  simplify  him  that  way. 

A  man  is  a  man  —  and  a  thousand  and  one  things  more,  because  man  is  the  whole  future, 
not  only  the  past.  The  dog  has  only  a  past.  The  man  has  tremendous  possibilities  of 
growth,  of  evolution,  of  transmutation.  Unless  those  things  are  accounted  for, 
anthropology  remains  very  superficial.  Only  religion  can  give  anthropology  meaning. 

So  it  is  good  that  you  have  come  to  me.  Much  will  become  possible,  and  your  studies  will 
be  affected  in  a  very  meaningful  way.  You  may  be  able  to  contribute  something  to 
anthropology.  If  this  concept  can  be  given  —  that  man  should  be  understood  as  a  process, 
a  being  who  is  on  the  way,  is  not  yet  arrived,  a  being  arrived,  a  being  not  complete, 
incomplete,  a  being  in  movement,  fluid  —  then  we  can  understand  the  anguish.  The 
anguish  is  that  man  is  always  worried  about  who  he  is.  And  there  seems  to  be  no  answer. 


If  he  looks  at  the  past  he  can  find  some  answer  about  who  he  is,  but  the  past  is  not  at  all. 
In  fact  the  past  is  no  more  meaningful.  It  is  gone.  Gone  is  gone.  And  man  is  always 
arriving,  surpassing  his  past,  reaching  beyond.  He  is  always  reaching  for  the  stars.  That  is 
what  man  is  —  a  surpassing,  a  transcendence.  And  unless  that  is  understood,  anthropology 
is  not  really  anthropology  because  it  is  not  a  science  of  man  yet. 

[Sometimes  I  enjoy  the  thought  of  going  back  to  the  West  and  speaking  with  people 
about  my  experiences,  my  beautiful  experiences  here,  and  at  other  times  I  think  it  is 
better  to  be  silent  and  to  let  you  speak  through  me.  You  speak  better  than  I.] 

No,  you  have  to  speak  for  me.  I  will  be  speaking  through  you.  I  will  need  many  more 
vehicles,  I  will  need  many  mediums.  And  because  I  am  not  going  anywhere,  I  will  be 
sending  ambassadors.  You  are  my  ambassador  —  official  ambassador  to  Italy!  Soon  we 
will  be  having  ambassadors  everywhere. 

You  have  much  to  do.  You  have  to  write.  You  have  to  speak...  you  have  to  shout  from  the 
rooftops.  And  I  will  be  there  shouting  through  you,  don't  be  worried.  You  just  start  and 
the  remainder  I  will  do.  You  just  initiate  it,  mm?  Good. 

The  Passion  for  the  Impossible 
Chapter  #28 
Chapter  title:  None 

18  September  1976  pm  in  Chuang  Tzu  Auditorium 

Archive  code:  7609185 
ShortTitle:  PASSI028 

Audio:  No 

Video:  No 

[To  a  sannyasin  who  is  leaving] 

...  continue  to  meditate  there  and  come  back  as  soon  as  possible,  because  much  work  has 
to  be  done  yet.  Something  has  started  but  it  is  just  a  beginning  —  never  forget  that.  And 
never  be  satisfied  too  soon.  Sometimes  it  happens  that  we  become  satisfied  too  early.  As 
far  as  worldly  things  are  concerned,  never  be  dissatisfied,  and  as  far  as  the  inner  world  is 
concerned,  never  be  satisfied.  Only  then  is  there  the  possibility  of  the  ultimate  flowering. 
And  just  the  opposite  happens  to  ordinary  minds.  They  are  never  satisfied  with  worldly 
things.  Something  more  is  always  there  —  always  a  bigger  house,  a  bigger  car,  more 
money,  more  power,  prestige,  respectability.  People  are  never  satisfied  as  far  as  things 
are  concerned,  but  people  are  absolutely  satisfied  as  far  as  their  inner  growth  in 
concerned.  That  is  very  suicidal.  So  reverse  the  whole  process. 

That's  what  sannyas  is  all  about.  It  is  a  revolution.  It  is  putting  things  upside  down.  It  is 
uprooting  things.  It  is  destroying  and  recreating,  making  and  unmaking. 

So  remember,  always  be  satisfied  with  whatsoever  is  outside.  Never  be  satisfied  with  the 
inner  growth.  Always  remember  that  something  more  is  going  to  happen.... 


[A  recently  arrived  sannyasin,  said  that  she  had  done  several  growth  groups  in  the  West 
but  though  she  enjoyed  them,  afterwards  she  always  felt  uneasy,  unhappy.  Osho  checked 
her  energy.] 

Everything  is  good.  You  just  have  too  much  energy,  so  when  in  the  group  your  energy  is 
involved,  you  feel  good.  Out  of  the  group  you  don't  have  that  involvement,  so  the  energy 
remains  unoccupied.  That  unoccupied  energy  brings  you  down. 

There  are  two  types  of  people  —  low  energy  people  and  high  energy  people.  The  high 
energy  people  need  deep  involvement,  commitment.  They  have  much  to  do.  Unless  they 
are  creative,  they  will  be  sad.  If  the  low  energy  people  have  to  do  something,  they  will 
feel  drained;  if  they  have  to  do  something  they  are  never  happy.  They  are  happy  only 
when  they  have  nothing  to  do,  then  their  energy  is  okay.  But  if  it  is  difficult  to  understand 
what  type  you  are,  that  creates  a  problem. 

You  are  a  high  energy  person.  You  need  to  pour  your  energy  more  into  work,  into 
creativity,  into  a  thousand  and  one  things.  In  a  group  situation  you  become  deeply 
involved  because  so  much  is  going  on  around  you.  Outside  the  group,  the  world  seems 
dull.  You  remain  a  little  aloof,  detached,  indifferent.  [See  darshan  of  Wednesday, 
September  1st,  where  Osho  talks  to  Somendra  about  using  high  energy  outside  group 
situations.] 

That  is  not  going  to  be  your  path.  You  need  a  deep  commitment.  If  you  can  put  your 
whole  life  at  stake,  you  will  have  your  climax,  your  peak  experience.  If  you  can  burn 
from  both  ends,  then  only  will  you  be  blissful. 

That  may  be  the  reason  why  you  are  feeling  lost  here.  First  you  were  in  and  had  nothing 
to  do;  you  could  not  do  anything.  You  could  not  get  involved  with  the  sannyasins  and  the 
orange  world  here.  But  now  you  are  okay.  Go  into  it  headlong.  Join  a  few  groups,  do  the 
meditations.  Get  involved  in  as  many  things  as  possible. 

That  is  your  way  to  grow...  that's  your  way  to  come  home.  You  cannot  go  slowly,  you 
have  to  run.  And  you  cannot  sit  silently.  That  way  you  will  feel  stuck,  stagnant.  You  are 
really  Western.  Your  way  is  going  to  be  active,  not  inactive.  Just  witnessing  won't  help 
you  —  involvement.  Get  lost  in  work,  in  activity,  and  don't  hold  yourself. 

Your  energy  is  so  good,  flowing,  there  is  no  problem  about  it. 

[A  sannyasin  says  she  is  not  doing  the  meditations  because:  It  feels  too  much  of  an  effort. 
I  enjoy  just  sitting  and  walking,  and  being  with  friends.] 

OSHO  Then  don't  create  problems!  —  because  that  sitting  and  enjoying  you  have  been 
doing  your  whole  life.  That  has  not  changed  you.  Your  problems  are  there.  When 
something  is  to  be  done,  you  don't  want  to  do  it  —  you  enjoy  sitting  —  but  the  sitting  is  not 
going  to  help  you.  If  it  is  helping,  then  there  is  no  difficulty.  If  you  can  just  change 
yourself  by  sitting  with  friends  and  enjoying,  then  I  am  not  here  to  force  you  into  any 
discipline,  any  hard  work.  But  it  is  not  changing  you.  That's  what  you  have  been  doing 
for  your  whole  life.  You  will  remain  the  same 

Some  hard  work  is  needed.  And  when  you  have  done  hard  work  and  you  have  earned 
rest,  then  sit  silently  and  enjoy  friends.  It  is  beautiful...  nothing  is  wrong  in  enjoying 
friends  and  sitting  silently  —  it  is  good,  but  earn  it  first.  But  how  can  you-think  that  sitting 
and  enjoying  friends  is  going  to  help?  It  may  be  just  an  occupation  —  just  getting  into 


things  so  that  one  can  pass  time,  or  it  may  be  just  an  escape  from  yourself.  It  may  be  just 
a  trick  of  the  mind  to  waste  time. 

If  you  are  really  interested  in  changing  and  in  dropping  your  problems,  then  there  are  two 
things:  either  drop  them...  then  I  will  not  say  to  do  any  hard  work.  Simply  drop  them. 
Then  you  are  allowed  to  sit  silently  and  enjoy  and  do  whatsoever  you  like,  but  then  drop 
the  problems  —  and  never  raise  them  again.  I'm  not  saying  don't  talk  about  your  problems 
to  me  —  not  even  to  yourself.  Drop  them  completely.  And  if  you  cannot  drop  them,  start 
meditating. 

It  is  hard  but  it  has  to  be  done.  At  least  two,  three  months  hard  work  is  needed.  It  will 
cleanse  you  and  it  will  purify  you.  It  will  destroy  the  old  structure  and  a  new  possibility 
will  arise.  Otherwise  you  will  continue  with  the  old. 

And  I  see  that  there  is  a  problem.  If  you  want  to  avoid  hard  work,  drop  the  problem.  But  I 
don't  see  that  you  will  be  able  to  drop  it  so  easily.  It  is  a  real  problem  —  it  is  there  hanging 
in  your  unconscious. 

And  my  feeling  is  that  you  are  avoiding  meditations.  They  are  not  hard...  because  so 
many  people  are  doing  them.  You  are  perfectly  healthy,  full  of  energy;  you  are  not  old.  It 
is  just  the  mind  that  is  avoiding  meditation,  because  the  mind  knows  if  it  goes  into 
meditation,  sooner  or  later  the  structure  will  explode  and  you  will  have  to  change. 

My  feeling  is  that  you  are  enjoying  your  problems,  your  depression,  your  sadness;  you 
are  enjoying  it  in  a  subtle  way.  If  you  want  to  enjoy  it,  then  too,  there  is  no  problem  —  but 
then  enjoy  it  deliberately,  knowingly.  Then  depression  is  no  more  depression. 

So  tomorrow,  think  about  it  —  these  two  things.  Sit  silently  tonight.  The  alternatives  are 
there:  either  you  drop  the  problems  or  you  have  to  start  meditating.  And  not  so-so, 
lukewarm.  You  have  to  really  work  hard  and  go  into  it.  Tomorrow  write  a  letter  about 
whatsoever  you  have  chosen.  And  I  am  happy  whatsoever  you  choose,  so  don't  bother 
about  me;  don't  think  about  what  I  would  like. 

Both  are  good,  perfectly  good.  In  fact  if  you  can  drop  problems  simply  like  that,  that's 
beautiful;  nothing  could  be  better.  But  if  you  cannot,  then  tomorrow  morning  get  up  and 
start  Dynamic  meditation.  And  all  five  you  have  to  do.  When  the  camp  is  finished,  do 
two  meditations  and  the  Nadabrahma,  the  humming  meditation,  at  home  —  three 
meditations.  And  after  three  weeks  I  am  going  to  give  you  a  meditation  —  but  first  you 
decide,  mm?  Good. 

[A  visitor  says:  How  can  I  stop  fighting  with  my  mind  and  my  stomach?  because  it 
distracts  me  during  meditation  very  often...  It's  a  nervous  kind  of  tension  and  a  feeling  of 
hunger.  It  has  been  there  for  about  a  year  —  since  I've  been  meditating. 

Osho  checks  his  energy,  and  suggests  he  do  some  groups.] 

And  whenever  you  go  in  the  morning  for  the  motion  —  when  you  empty  your  stomach  — 
after  emptying  it,  take  a  dry  towel,  a  rough  towel,  and  rub  your  stomach.  Pull  the  stomach 
in  and  rub  hard.  Start  at  the  right  corner  and  go  round.  Go  just  around  the  navel  but  don't 
touch  the  navel...  really  hard  so  that  it  gives  a  good  massage.  Pull  the  stomach  in  so  all 
the  intestines  are  massaged.  Do  it  whenever  you  go  for  the  motion  —  twice,  thrice  a  day. 
And  the  second  thing,  in  the  daytime,  between  sunrise  and  sunset  —  never  in  the  night  — 
breathe  as  deeply  as  you  can,  as  many  times  as  you  can.  The  more  you  breathe  the  better, 
and  the  deeper  you  breathe  the  better.  But  remember  only  one  thing  —  that  breathing 


should  happen  through  the  stomach  and  not  through  the  chest,  so  that  when  you  breathe 
in,  the  stomach  goes  up  —  not  the  chest.  You  are  a  German  and  you  may  do  something 
wrong  [Osho  chuckles.  When  you  breathe  in,  the  stomach  goes  out,  and  when  you 
breathe  out,  the  stomach  goes  in.  Leave  the  chest  as  if  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  it.  Just 
breathe  by  the  belly,  so  the  whole  day  it  will  be  like  a  subtle  massage. 

Do  these  two  things,  and  these  groups  will  do  much. 

[A  sannyasin  says:  I  feel  a  lot  of  confusion  here...  One  day  I'm  up  and  the  next  I'm  down, 
and  doubting  the  whole  sannyas  trip  again.  It  changes  so  fast  here  that  I  can  hardly 
follow.] 

Mm,  it  is  natural.  Doubt  is  natural  to  the  mind.  It  remains  with  the  mind.  It  goes  only 
when  the  mind  is  gone.  You  cannot  have  a  mind  without  doubt;  that  is  impossible.  A 
mind  without  doubt  is  a  no-mind.  In  fact,  doubt  is  the  very  core  of  the  mind.  And  no¬ 
doubt  is  the  very  core  of  the  heart.  So  it  happens  to  everybody  —  to  whomsoever  comes  to 
me  it  is  going  to  happen;  he  starts  hanging  between  the  heart  and  the  mind. 

Sometimes  when  you  are  in  the  mind  you  are  doubtful  —  doubtful  about  everything.  It  is 
not  a  question  of  about  what  you  are  doubtful.  You  are  simply  doubtful.  Anything  will 
do;  that  is  just  an  excuse.  You  are  doubtful  so  you  put  your  doubt  on  any  nail.  Any  nail 
will  do,  any  hook  will  do.  If  there  is  none  you  will  find  one,  because  you  are  in  a 
doubting  state  and  the  doubt  has  to  be  projected. 

When  you  are  closer  to  the  heart,  doubt  will  disappear;  then  everything  is  perfectly  good. 
You  are  in  trust. 

That  is  what  is  happening.  In  the  morning  when  you  come  to  listen  to  me....  First  I  am 
talking  in  Hindi  so  you  cannot  understand  much.  That  also  is  very  helpful,  because  if  you 
can  understand,  the  mind  goes  on  working.  You  cannot  understand.  You  have  just  to  be 
here  sitting  silently;  whatsoever  I  am  saying  goes  on  passing.  It  cannot  create  any 
disturbance  in  your  mind.  You  are  simply  absorbing  my  pure  presence. 

That's  what  satsang  is  —  to  be  in  the  presence  of  the  master...  just  to  be  in  close  affinity, 
close  quarters;  just  to  be  there  doing  nothing.  Suddenly  your  heart  starts  flowering, 
opening.  You  feel  good.  One  can  almost  feel  ecstatic. 

Back  home  you  are  back  in  the  head.  Again  you  start  thinking  about  what  is  happening, 
what  is  going  on,  what  you  are  doing  here.  You  are  hanging  between  the  heart  and  the 
head.  That's  how  everybody  is  hanging,  more  or  less. 

One  thing  is  going  to  help  you.  Whenever  the  mind  starts  doubting,  just  sit  silently;  don't 
cooperate,  withdraw  your  cooperation.  Let  the  mind  doubt.  Tell  the  mind,  'Okay,  you  go 
on,  but  it  is  none  of  my  business.  I  will  sit  silently  by  the  side  and  look  at  you.  I  will 
watch  the  traffic.  I  will  not  be  a  participant.' 

[Osho  said  that  whenever  the  mind  started  to  dominate,  he  should  simply  remain  a 
witness...  1 

...  and  whenever  you  feel  that  the  heart  is  there,  give  it  your  total  cooperation.  Rejoice  in 
it,  dance  with  it,  sway.  Don't  be  a  miser;  don't  hold  anything.  Just  let  go...  what  Sufis  call 
fana.  Just  die  in  it  totally.  Disappear  into  it.  Become  such  a  participant  that  you  are  no 


more  there.  With  the  heart,  drown  yourself  in  the  rejoicing,  in  the  joy  of  it.  In  the  fana  — 
that  is  the  exact  word.  It  means  to  disappear,  dissolve. 

Then  you  will  see,  within  a  week,  a  shift.  The  heart  will  become  predominant  more  and 
more.  The  mind  will  be  there  to  interfere  less  and  less.  You  will  feel  a  leaning  towards 
the  heart  more  and  more.  Further  away  the  mind  is  still  going  on  with  its  mechanical 
work  —  but  very  far  away...  as  if  on  some  other  planet,  far  away  on  some  other  star. 

And  when  the  heart  is  there....  Tomorrow  morning  when  you  sit  there  [in  the  lecture]  go 
into  it  really,  float  with  me...  ride  on  my  wave.  Be  courageous.  And  don't  make  any 
conditions  —  just  go  with  it  wherever  it  leads.  And  once  you  start  enjoying  the  heart,  there 
is  no  need  for  any  discipline.  This  is  only  in  the  beginning,  because  once  we  know  that 
the  heart  is  really  beautiful,  blissful,  the  change  automatically  starts  happening. 

Right  now  we  are  not  aware  of  the  taste  of  the  heart.  We  know  only  the  taste  —  the  bitter 
taste  —  of  the  mind.  That  is  familiar  and  we  are  trained  for  it,  educated  for  it,  conditioned 
for  it.  And  nobody  has  told  you  anything  about  the  heart.  It  is  a  neglected  part  —  and  it  is 
your  very  core.  The  periphery  has  been  decorated  too  much  and  the  innermost  shrine  has 
been  almost  neglected.  You  have  completely  forgotten  it. 

There  are  many  people  who  don't  know  that  the  heart  exists.  By  the  heart  they  simply 
mean  the  physiological  functioning  of  the  breath,  the  pumping  system  for  the  blood.  They 
have  completely  forgotten  what  poets  talk  about  and  what  mystics  talk  about.  It  has 
nothing  to  do  with  pumping  blood  and  breathing,  or  purifying  blood. 

The  heart  is  your  innermost  core  of  being  where  everything  is  yes  and  nothing  is  no; 
where  trust  is  absolute  and  not  even  a  shadow  of  doubt  exists.  But  one  has  to  enjoy  it,  and 
then  it  grows  more  and  more.  Then  it  becomes  such  a  magnetic  force  that  you  are  pulled 
towards  it. 


