wii 





OL 


il 


Wty 


ALISHAAIN 








Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2007 with funding from 
Microsoft Corporation 


http://www. archive.org/details/commentaryonbook01 calvuoft 


vO a. —_” 





















Tle | ay nag ae A . es, (a a le 7a 7 ek er) Li | > ol —— ee . : = 
3 ae 1 co ot 2 AL + <= . aie | r + E 
\ 
= .: | 
fae . 
t 
° * 


COMM 


THE CALVIN TRANSLATION SOCIETY, 


INSTITUTED IN MAY M.DCCCO.XLUL 





FOR THE PUBLICATION OF TRANSLATIONS OF THE WORKS OF 
JOHN CALVIN. 





COMMENTARY 


or 


ON 


THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 


BY JOHN CALVIN. 


TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL LATIN, AND COLLATED 
WITH THE AUTHOR’S FRENCH VERSION, 


BY THE REY. JAMES ANDERSON. 


VOLUME FIRST. 


EDINBURGH: 
PRINTED FOR THE CALVIN TRANSLATION SOCIETY. 


M.DCCC,XLYV. 





INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. 


Tue Book or PsauMs, viewed merely as a poetical composi- 
tion, has very high claims on our attention. Men of the most 
refined and cultivated taste have often been attracted to the 
study of it from the poetical beauties with which it abounds, 
and have admitted, in this respect, the superiority of its 
claims. The greatest of our English poets' thus speaks of 
these sacred songs: “ Not in their divine argument alone, 
but in the very critical art of composition, they may be easily 
made appear over all the kinds of lyric poesy to be incom- 
parable.” Another elegant scholar,’ speaking on the same 
subject, says, “In lyric flow and fire, in crushing force and 
majesty, that seems still to echo the awful sounds once heard 
beneath the thunder clouds of Sinai, the poetry of the ancient 
Scriptures is the most superb that ever burned within the 
breast of man.” 


But the intrinsic excellence of this Book gives it still higher 
claims on our attention. Written under the influence of the 
Spirit of inspiration, its subject-matter is worthy of its celes- 
tial origin. In general, it contains details of the national 
history of the Jewish people, records of particular portions 
of the life and experience of individuals, and predictions of 
future events. Each of these heads embraces a wide field, 
and they include illustrations of every religious truth which it 


! Milton. 2 Sir Daniel K. Sandford. 


vi INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. 


is necessary for us to know, exemplifications of every devout 
feeling which it is our duty to cherish, and examples of every 
spiritual conflict which it is possible for us to experience. 
We meet with many disclosures of the greatness, majesty, 
and perfections of the only true God ; his government of the 
world ; and his special care over his chosen people. We meet 
with the varied exercises of the regenerated soul, and behold 
it at one time offering up fervent supplications to the Hearer 
of prayer, at another celebrating his perfections and works ; 
at one time giving utterance to the ardent breathings of love 
to God, and trust in him, at another struggling with unbe- 
lief and corruption; at one time mourning under the divine 
chastisement on account of sin, at another rejoicing in a sense 
of forgiving mercy, and enjoying the peace which passeth all 
understanding. We have presented to us many wonderful 
predictions concerning the Messiah, his humiliation, suffer- 
ings, death, resurrection, and ascension to his Father's right 
hand; his work in heaven as the intercessor of his people, 
and his authority as universal King; the effusion of the in- 
fluences of the Holy Spirit, and the conversion of all nations 
to the faith of the Gospel. In short, we have unfolded to 
our view the final judgment, the gathering of all the righteous 
to God, and the eternal exclusion of the wicked from happi- 
ness and from hope. 


These and similar topics which are set forth in the noblest 
strains of poetry, and in a diction whose magnificence and 
sublimity correspond to the importance and grandeur of the 
sentiments, constitute the materials of this Book ; and while 
they afford an incontestable proof that it is inspired, that it 
does not consist of the creations of mere human genius, but is 
an emanation from heaven, they show that its character and 
tendency are altogether different from the character and 
tendency of the most admired poetry, which the genius of 
heathen nations has ever produced. It ministers to no de- 


EE —— — é 


—— 


a 8 iii) iii 


INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. vil 


praved passion ; it fosters no fictitious virtue ; it disdains to 
offer its delicious incense at the shrine of degrading supersti- 
tion. It teaches the most exalted piety, and the purest 
morality. It tends only to refine and exalt the nature of 
man, to elevate the soul to God, and inspire it with the ad- 
miration and love of his character, to curb the passions, 
purify the affections, and excite to the cultivation of whatso- 
ever things are true, honest, just, pure, lovely, and of good 
report. It has guided the saint in doubt and difficulty ; it 
has nerved him for self-denial and suffering ; it has imparted 
support and comfort to him in the hour of death. This Book 
has accordingly been highly appreciated by the best of men 
in eyery age, and they have laboured to find expressions in 
which to set forth its excellence. Athanasius styles it, “An 
epitome of the whole Scriptures ;” Basil, “A compendium of 
all theology ;” Luther, “ A little Bible, and the summary 
of the Old Testament ;” Melancthon, “ The most elegant 
work extant in the world;” and for Calvin’s estimate of its 
value we refer to the excellent preface with which he intro- 
duces this department of his labours to the attention of the 
reader. 


CaALyin’s COMMENTARY ON THE PsauMs, anew Translation 
of which is now in course of being presented to the English 
reader, is distinguished by many of the excellencies which 
have acquired for his Commentaries on other parts of Scrip- 
ture so great reputation. In this, as in his other Commen- 
taries, his first and great object is to ascertain the mind of 
the Holy Spirit. To ascertain this, he proceeds on the prin- 
ciple laid down by Melancthon, “that Scripture cannot be 
understood theologically, unless it be first understood gram- 
matically.” Before his time the mystical and allegorical 
method of explaining the Scriptures was very prevalent ; 
according to which, the interpreter, dwelling very little or 
not at all upon the literal sense, sought for hidden and alle- 


viii INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. 


gorical meanings. But rejecting this mode of interpretation, 
which contributed little to the right understanding of the 
word of God, and according to which the meaning was made 
to depend entirely upon the fancy of the interpreter, Calvin 
set himself to the investigation of the grammatical and literal 
sense, by a careful examination of the Hebrew text, and by 
a diligent attention to the drift and intention of the writer's 
discourse. 


This principle of interpretation cannot be too highly com- 
mended. It should first engage the attention of the com- 
mentator ; and when it is neglected, the fundamental principle 
of sacred criticism is violated. Calvin was deeply alive to its 
importance. His only defect lies in his acting upon it too 
exclusively. Many of the Psalms, in addition to the literal 
meaning, have a prophetical, evangelical, and spiritual sense. 
While referring primarily to David and the nation of Israel, 
they have, at the same time, a reference to Christ and the 
New Testament Church, founded on the fact that the former 
were typical of the latter. Calvin, indeed, explains some of 
the Psalms on this principle. But he applies the principle 
less frequently than he might have done, without contraven- 
ing the canons of sound hermeneutics. His great aversion to 
the mystical method of interpretation, and to the absurd and 
extravagant lengths to which it was carried by the Fathers, 
perhaps made him err on the other extreme of confining his 
attention too much to the literal meaning, and directing his 
attention too little to the prophetical and spiritual character 
of the Book, and to the reference which it has to Christ and 
the Church. In consequence of this, his expositions have 
less unction, and contain less of rich evangelical sentiment, 
than would otherwise have distinguished them. There are, 
however, two principles of evangelical truth which he is at 
pains to inculcate, whenever a fit opportunity presents itself 
—the doctrine of justification by faith in Christ without the 


) 
| 
; 
\ 
: 
j 


| 


INTRODUCTORY NOTICE, 1X 


works of the Law; and the necessity of personal holiness in 
order to salvation. 


Another excellence of this ComMENTARY is its practical 
character. The author does not confine himself to the dry 
and lifeless detail of mere grammatical praxis, as if he had 
been commenting on a Greek or Roman classic. He turns 
all his explanations to practical account, and thus his work 
exhibits a happy combination of critical and philological 
remark with practical exposition. 


Here, again, we find displayed the sound and penetrating 
judgment for which Cavin has been universally admired. 
This is manifest in the judicious selection which he makes 
from amongst a variety of interpretations, of that which is 
evidently the true one, or which appears to be the most 
probable. Sometimes he pronounces a certain interpretation 
to be meagre and unsatisfactory. At other times, he simply 
states his preference of one interpretation to another, when, 
after careful examination, it appeared to him to have the 
balance of arguments in its favour; without, however, 
expressing any decided opposition to the other, when the 
view which he preferred to it was supported only by a slight 
preponderance of evidence. At other times, he does not 
decide between different interpretations, showing that with 
respect to certain words and expressions he had not come to 
a fixed opinion. In all these instances,' he generally shows 


' From the variety of interpretations of the same passages which we 
meet with in Calvin’s Commentary, and of which we have still more 
numerous specimens in Poole’s Synopsis Criticorum, it is by no means to 
be supposed that the meaning of the language of Scripture is vague, uncer- 
tain, and unsettled. Had the professed interpreters of Scripture always 
performed their task with judgment, as well as learning and talent, and 
been guided by the rules of sound hermeneutics, the reader would not have 
been bewildered with so many different and contradictory interpretations. 
Still, however, there are words and sentences, the exact import of which 


- is more or less doubtful and uncertain, so that it is difficult to determine 


between different senses which have been put upon them. The reasons of 


x INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. 


much penetration and judgment. He is, no doubt, sometimes 
mistaken in his interpretation of particular passages. But 
when it is considered that the Scriptures had long been a 
sealed book, and that his helps were few and imperfect com- 


this are so well stated by Cresswell, in his preface to The Book of Psalms 
with Notes, (pp. 14, 15, 16,) and the passage has so direct a bearing on a 
number of the various interpretations, which Calvin deals with in this 
Commentary, that we shall quote it entire though it is long. 

“The Hebrew is not only a dead language, but the oldest of all dead 
languages ; it is, moreover, the language of a people that lived under in- 
stitutions and ina climate very different from those of our own country, so 
that the idioms with which it abounds cannot but be strange to our habits 
of thinking, and our modes of speech; nor have we any book but the 
Bible itself to consult for an illustration of these phraseological pecu- 
liarities. The paucity of the words also contained in that ancient tongue 
is such, that the same Hebrew term very often bears a great variety of 
significations, the connexion of which with each other cannot always be 
satisfactorily ascertained : and, again, there are words, each of which is 
found but once in the whole volume of Scripture, so that their meanings 
can only be conjectured, either from their affinity to other words, or from 
the purport of the passage wherein they occur. 

“The following are amongst the many grammatical Hebraisms which 
we meet within The Book of Psalms. The future and past tenses are put 
almost indiscriminately, the one for the other, and the former of them is 
used occasionally to designate not that which will happen, but that which 
is accustomed to happen. ‘The infinitive is put for every other mood, and 
also for nouns even in the accusative case. The future tense is sometimes 
expressed by a verb in the imperative mood. Two substantives are put 
instead of a substantive and an adjective ; a substantive is frequently used 
adverbially ; and the same substantive repeated denotes multitude, 
When the negative particle occurs in the first member of a sentence, it is 
sometimes to be understood, and must be supplied, in the following mem- 
bers. Hebrew sentences are also in other respects very often elliptical, 
broken, and imperfect ; and in the same sentence there is in many instances 
a change of person in the speaker, without any express intimation of it. 

“From the peculiarities above mentioned, and especially from the 
different ways in which an ellipse may be supplied, it is plain that the text 
of Scripture must needs admit of a considerable latitude of interpretation ; 
so that although none of its important doctrines, whether they relate to 
faith or morals, are thereby left doubtful, yet does it contain passages the 
exact meanings of which are more or less uncertain. The candid and 
pious reader, however, will with Augustine gladly acknowledge that all 
which he fully comprehends in the sacred volume is most excellent; 
whilst he looks with feelings of veneration upon that smaller portion of it 
which he less perfectly understands, but which ‘the diligence and erudition 
of future times may, through divine aid, be enabled to elucidate.” 


. 


INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. x1 


_ pared with those which we now possess, the wonder is, that 
he should have succeeded so well in bringing out their true 
meaning. This was chiefly owing to vigour and acuteness 
of intellect, combined with a sound and discriminating judg- 
ment. These, indeed, were the mental qualities by which 
he was peculiarly distinguished. We meet with no flashes 
of poetry, no brilliant corruscations of fancy, giving evidence 
of a powerful imagination. The eloquent passages which 
occur are the eloquence of reason, not the bursts of imagina- 
tion. But his strength of thought, the vigour and per- 
spicacity of his intellect, the extraordinary power of his 
judgment, command our willing admiration. 


Since this Commentary was first published, a great num- 
ber of Translations of The Psalms, as well as numerous critical 
and explanatory works upon them, have made their appear- 
ance, while much new light has been thrown upon many 
passages from more extensive philological research, from an 
attention to the parallelism of Hebrew poetry,' and from the 
fuller information which we now possess, by the discoveries 
of modern travellers, of the natural history, customs, and 
manners of the East, to which frequent allusion is made in 
The Psalms. But such is the acuteness of judgment, and 


1 Parallelism is the distinguishing characteristic of Hebrew poetry, and 
an attention to it, itmust be admitted, affords much assistance in elucidating 
obseure, and explaining difficult passages. Some modern translations of 
The Psalms, as French and Skinner’s, have the lines so arranged as to 
make the parallelisms apparent to the eye; which enables the reader to 
discover at a glance niceties both of structure and of meaning, which, in 
the ordinary mode of printing, might pass unnoticed after frequent and 
even close perusal. For a full investigation of this subject, the reader is 
referred to Dr Lowth’s elegant Lectures on Sacred Poetry, and his Preli- 
minary Dissertation prefixed to his translation of the prophet Isaiah, 
works which created a new era in sacred literature, by the light which they 
cast on the character of Hebrew poetry, with respect to which the learned 
world were previously unsettled and perplexed, from the obscurity which 
rested on the subject. Bishop Jebb, in his “ Sacred Literature,” has also 
_ investigated the parallelism of Hebrew poetry with much ability, and sue- 
cessfully controverted some of Bishop Lowth’s positions. 


xii INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. 


success in discovering the mind of the Spirit which distin- 
guish these prelections, that they are not superseded by any 
modern Commentary on the same subject: and though it is 
nearly three centuries since they were written, there are few 
separate works on The Psalms from which the student of the 
present day, who wishes critically to examine them, will 
derive more important assistance. 


Nor is CaLvin’s impartiality and integrity as an interpreter 
less apparent in this Work than his judgment. It being his 
first and leading object to ascertain the mind of the Holy 
Spirit, he came to the Word of God not for the purpose of 
finding arguments to establish some preconceived opinion or 
theory, but in the humble character of a learner, and we never 
find him perverting or twisting a passage to support even those 
doctrines which he most deeply cherished. So far from do- 
ing this, he not unfrequently gives up a text which has been 
explained by other commentators as a proof of some import- 
ant doctrine, and which he would have viewed in the same 
light had it not been for his aversion to put on Seripture a 
forced construction, and his determination rigidly to adhere 
to the principles of fair and logical interpretation. For exam- 
ple, these words in Psalm ii. 7, “Jehovah hath said unto me, 
Thou art my Son; this day have I begotten thee,” have been 
quoted by Augustine and many other eminent divines, in 
proof of the eternal generation of the Son of God. But as 
Paul, in Acts xiii. 33, explains them as receiving their fulfil- 
ment in the resurrection of Christ, Calvin sets them aside from 
the class of proofs which support the doctrine of an eternal 
generation, although he held that doctrine,' and considers them 


* That Calvin held this doctrine is evident from his Commentary on 
Acts xiii. 33, where, after stating that the words of the second Psalm, 
above quoted, refer to the unequivocal evidence by which the Father 
proved that Christ was his Son in raising him from the dead, he observes, 
‘This, however, is no objection to the doctrine that Christ, the personal 
Word, was begotten by the eternal Father before time ; but that genera- 
tion is an inscrutable mystery.” With respect to those who argue from 


INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. xiii 


as referring merely to the manifestation afforded of Christ’s 
Sonship by his resurrection from the dead. Again, Psalm 
viii. 5, &e., “ Thou hast made him a little lower than God, and 
hast crowned him with glory and honour,” &c., has been often 
explained as prophetic of the temporary humiliation and sub- 
sequent exaltation of Christ, an opinion which is supported 
by reasons far from contemptible; but Calvin, judging from 
the scope of the passage, considers it as exclusively referring 
to man, and that when Paul quotes it in Heb. ii. 7, and 
applies it to Christ, he applies it to him only by way of 
accommodation.? Again, these words in Psalm xxxiii. 6, 
~“ By the word of Jehovah were the heavens established, and 
all the host of them by the spirit of his mouth,” have been 
viewed by many judicious divines as a proof of the Trinity, 
“ Jehovah,” denoting the Father, “the word of Jehovah,” 
the Son, and “ the spirit of Jehovah’s mouth,” the Holy 
Spirit ; but while Calvin admits that the “ word of Jehovah” 
means the Eternal Word, the only begotten Son of God, yet 
reasoning from the sense which the phrase, “the spirit of 
Jehovah’s mouth,” ordinarily bears in Scripture, he argues 
that it does not there mean the third person of the adorable 
Trinity, but simply sermo, speech, although there were no 
truths which he held more firmly, and regarded as more essen- 
tial to the Christian system, than the doctrines of the Trinity 
and of the Divinity of the Holy Spirit.* “It is very pos- 
sible,” says Tholuck, “ that in following this direction of 
mind, he may have unnecessarily sacrificed this and the other 
proof text; still the principle upon which he proceeded is in 
all cases to be approved.” 


this passage in support of that doctrine, he says, ‘‘ I know that Augustine, 
and the greatest number of commentators, are better pleased with the 
subtile speculation that ‘to-day’ denotes a continued or an eternal act. 
But when the Spirit of God himself is his own interpreter, and explains 
by the mouth of Paul what was spoken by David, we are not warranted 
to invent and put upon the words any other meaning.” 

1P. 18. 2 Pp. 103-105. 3P. 543. 


xiv INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. 


This ComMENTary, again, bears evident marks of the learn- 
ing of its author. His intimate acquaintance with the Hebrew 
language, the knowledge of which is of so much importance 


to the interpretation of the Old Testament Scriptures,is every- * 


where apparent. Father Simon, whom the acrimony of con- 
troversy led to indulge too much in depreciating and abusing 
those who differed from him, asserts, indeed, that Calvin was 
so ignorant of the Hebrew language, that he knew nothing 
more than the letters. But we have only to examine his 
Commentary on The Psalms, not to speak of his Commen- 
taries on other parts of the Old Testament, to be convinced 
that his knowledge of the Hebrew language was accurate 
and minute, considering the age in which he lived. He fre- 
quently enters into a critical examination of the original text, 
and manifests by his philological remarks, brief though they 


be, an intimate acquaintance with that language; arriving, — 


in his interpretations, at the same results to which a more 
profound exegesis and a more minute attention to philology 
have conducted modern critics. Often, when he does not 
professedly criticise the Hebrew text, or make his statements 
in the form of criticism, the Hebrew scholar will perceive 
that his remarks are founded upon a close attention to the 
strict meaning of the Hebrew words, and that he frequently 
states their precise import with much force, felicity, and deli- 
cacy of expression. Nor is proof wanting, from this Com- 
mentary, that Calvin had travelled over the whole field of 
knowledge, in so far as it had been explored in his day. From 
ancient and modern systems of philosophy, from civil and 
ecclesiastical history, as well as from the Greek and Roman 
classics, he draws materials, and shows how he could employ 
with ease and power, and yet without the least ostentation 
or pedantry, his varied acquisitions for the illustration of 
sacred truth. 


In short, this Work is pervaded by earnest piety and much 





INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. Xv 


Christian experience. Its whole tone evinces it to be the 
fruit of a soul which felt the deep workings of piety ; of a soul 
in which the love of God was supreme, which sought its rest 
and happiness in him alone, which recognised his hand and 
providence in every event, which confided in him in all cir- 
cumstances, which looked to him as a Father and a friend for 
every blessing, and which, in all its powers, was consecrated 
with entire devotedness to Christ and the Gospel. It every- 
where, too, bespeaks the man of large religious experience. 
Whether the author comments on the plaintive songs in 
which grief pours forth its bitterness, or on the triumphant 
and joyful songs in which the perfections and providence of 
God, individual and national deliverances are celebrated; 
whether he speaks of David’s religious exercises, or of the 
trials of his life, or of his inward conflicts, we perceive a 
mind which had itself experienced much of what it illustrates. 
This experience eminently qualified Calvin to be an inter- 
preter of The Psalms. Placed often in circumstances similar 
to those of David, as he graphically describes in his Preface, 
he was thus enabled accurately to conceive of David’s train 
of thinking, to see things as it were with his eyes, to trace 
the complexion and character of his feelings, and thus to 
portray them im so just and natural a manner, that we are 
almost ready to think, in perusing the description of them, 
that they are described by David himself. 


This Work has been translated from the original Latin, 
and collated with the French version, which was written 
by the author himself. The French edition which has been 
used, and which was doubtless the last corrected under the 
author’s eye, was printed in 1563, and is described on the 
title-page as “ So carefully revised, and so faithfully compared 
with the Latin version, that it may be considered a new 
translation.” While the Translator has made the Latin ver- 
“sion his text book, he has throughout carefully collated it 


xvi INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. 


with the French version, by which he has been greatly aided 
in giving a clearer and fuller representation of his author's 
meaning. ‘The French version having made its appearance 
after the Latin, and being written in Calvin’s native tongue, 
in which he might be expected to write with greater ease 
than in a dead language, admired though his Latin works are 
for the purity of their classic diction, it contains numerous 
expansions of thought and expression, by which he removes 
the occasional obscurities of the Latin version, which is writ- 
ten in a style more compressed and concise. Sometimes, 
though not often, we meet with a complete sentence in the 
French version which is not to be found in the Latin; but 
the cases are of frequent occurrence, in which, by inserting 
into the French version a clause at the beginning, the 
middle, or the end of a sentence, which does not occur in 
the Latin, he explains what is obscure in the latter version, 
or introduces a new thought or expresses his meaning with 
greater clearness and with greater copiousness of language. 
These additional clauses the Translator has introduced into 
the text in their proper place, and indicated them by adding 
the original French in the form of notes at the foot of the 
page. He, however, sometimes translates from the French 
version where it seems fuller and more perspicuous than the 
Latin, without indicating this by foot-notes. In a few in- 
stances, where the expression in the two versions is different, 
he has given the expression of both, retaining that of the 
Latin version in the text, and transferring that of the French 
to the foot of the page. 


With respect to the principle on which he has proceeded 
in the task of translating, it is sufficient simply to state, that 
he has endeavoured to express the meaning of his author in 
language as true to the original as possible, avoiding being 
too literal on the one hand, and too loose on the other; as 
this, in his apprehension, is the method by which a translator 


INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. xvii 


can best succeed in faithfully representing to the reader the 
sense as well as the style and manner of his author. 


CALY1n’s version of the Sacred Text has been given in pre- 
ference to that of our English Bible, as this was necessary to 
the clear understanding of his illustrations. The two versions, 
however, nearly resemble each other: often our English ver- 
sion is an accurate translation of Calvin’s, at other times the 
marginal readings which are in some of our English Bibles. 
He, however, not unfrequently differs from both ; and in some 
instances, though not in all, where he does differ, his trans- 
lation appears to be superior in accuracy, and places the 
sentiment of the original in a clearer light, and with greater 
effect than is done in our English version. The Scriptural 
quotations which he makes have been given in the words 
of our English Bible, except in those cases in which his 
argument required his own translation of the passage to 
be retained. 


- This Work was translated into English some years after its 
first appearance by ARTHUR GOLDING, whose translation was 
published at London in 1571. Arthur Golding, who was of 
a gentleman’s family and a native of London, was one of the 
most distinguished translators of the Roman classics in the 
age of Queen Elizabeth, when the translation of these valu- 
able works of antiquity into the English language employed 
every pen. He translated Justin’s History, Cxsar’s Com- 
mentaries, Ovid’s Metamorphoses, Seneca’s Benefits, and 
other classic authors ; as well as various modern French and 
Latin works, among which are a number of Calvin’s writings, 
besides The Psalms. His only original work appears to have 
been, “A Discourse upon the Earthquake that happened 
through the Realme of Englande, and other places of Chris- 
tendom, the sixt of Aprill 1580,” published in l6mo. “ It is 


to be regretted,” says Warton, “that he gave so much of his 
VOL. I. b 


xviii INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. 


time to translation.” Golding was no doubt a good classical 
scholar, and well acquainted with the style of Calyin; butas 
his translation was executed nearly three hundred years ago, 
it every where abounds with words and phrases which are 
become antiquated and obsolete, from the great change which 
the English language has undergone since that period. Being 
on this account frequently very obscure, often unintelligible, 
it fails in giving a just representation to an English reader of 
the present day of Calvin’s work, and leads him to form a 
less favourable estimate of its value than is due to its high 
merits. Besides, Golding does not appear to have seen the 
French version, which affords to a translator so much assist- 
ance in the faithful representation of Calvin’s meaning. 


With respect to the Notes with which this Translation is 
accompanied, they are intended to enable the reader clearly 
to understand the meaning of such of Calvin’s philological 
remarks and criticisms as are obscure, from the brevity with 
which they are stated; or to exhibit Calvin’s merits as a 
commentator, by showing how frequently his interpretations 
are adopted and supported by the most eminent Biblical 
critics; or to illustrate the Sacred Text, by showing the 
precise meaning of the Hebrew words, or by explaining some 
portion of natural history, or some eastern custom or manner 
to which there is an allusion. The ancient versions afford im- 
portant assistance in the explanation of difficult passages, and 
their rendering of particular texts has been occasionally given 
when this contributes to elucidate them, or to throw light on 
Calvin’s observations. Of these versions the Septuagint, the 
Vulgate, and Jerome’s, are the only ones which. he appears 
to have consulted, and to the first he frequently refers, 


As the Translations of THe Catyiy Socrery are in- 


1 See Biographica Dramatica; Lowndes’ Biographer’s Manual of English 
Literature ; and Warton’s History of English Poetry, vol. iii. pp. 409-414. 


INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. xix 


tended for the whole Christian community, it has been deemed 
out of place to enter upon theological questions, on which 
difference of opinion exists among the various denominations 
of the Christian community. In making these Notes, the Edi- 
tor has often compared Calvin’s translation of the Sacred Text 
with the original Hebrew, and with the Septuagint, Vulgate, 
and Jerome’s versions. He has also consulted a considerable 
number of critical works on The Psalms by some of the most 
eminent Biblical scholars who have written on this book, 
either as a separate undertaking, or in common with the 
other books of Scripture. Of the rich stores of erudition 
thus supplied he has freely made use; and in the course of 
the work he has carefully marked his authorities, as this will 
give greater weight to his statements. Many of the authors 
who are quoted were men of distinguished learning, judg- 
ment, and piety, possessed a profound acquaintance with the 
Hebrew language, and had devoted years of laborious study 
to the investigation of the meaning of this sacred book ; and 
it is wonderful to find how closely the results of Calvin’s 
investigations, even on the most difficult passages, harmonise 
with the results to which modern critics, guided by the prin- 
ciples of accurate hermeneutics, have arrived. This has 
often forced itself upon the attention of the Editor, and the 
more he has compared Calvin’s criticisms and interpreta- 
tions with the labours of these learned men, the higher has 
been raised his admiration of the ingenuity, penetration, 
learning, and critical acumen of this great commentator. 
Not a few, indeed, of the most beautiful interpretations 
which are to be found in Commentaries and critical works, 
were first given forth by Calvin, although the source in which 
they originated has been forgotten. It may here be stated, 
that the examination of the philology of the Sacred Text, and 
of critical works on the subject, has led the Editor to observe 
how closely Calvin often adheres in his interpretations to the 
- import of the original Hebrew, and enabled him in many cases 


xx INTRODUCTORY NOTICE. 


in the course of the translation to represent the meaning of 
his author more correctly than he could otherwise have done, 
as well as to avoid mistakes into which Golding has some- 
times fallen, evidently from his not being acquainted with the 
philology of the passage, or the criticism which Calvin briefly 
states or refers to, and which it is difficult for the reader 
clearly to understand, unless he find it more fully stated in 
some other critical work. 


The Editor has to express his obligations to two of his 
friends who materially aided in the preparation of the latter 
part of this volume,—the late Rev. ALEXANDER DuNCAN, 
A.M., formerly of Dundee, and the Rey. James M‘Lean, 
whose able translation of several of the Psalms left him little 
more to do than the labour of revision and annotation. The 
Editor and the Society have also been much indebted to the 
Rey. Tuomas M‘Crin, Professor of Divinity, Edinburgh, not 
only in general for the benefit of his experience, but also for 
the trouble he has taken in examining the sheets of this 
Volume while passing through the press, and for many im- 
portant suggestions. The Editor has great satisfaction in 
thus publicly acknowledging his obligations. 


A fac-simile of the TITLE-PAGE of the French version 
which we have used, and of the title-page of Arthur Golding’s 
translation, together with his Dedication, are prefixed to this 
Volume. 


It remains only to be added, that the last Volume will 
contain copious Iypices of the principal matters contained in 
the Commentary and Notes, of the passages of Scripture 
more or less illustrated, and of the Hebrew words referred to 
or explained, J. A. 


EprxpureGa, June 1845. 


COMMENTAIRES 
de M. lean Caluin fur le liure des 
Pfeaumes. 

CESTE TRADVCTION EST TELLEMENT 


reueué & fi fidelement conferee fur le Latin, qu’on la 
peut iuger eftre nouuelle. 


AVEC VNE TABLE FORT AMPLE DES PRINCI- 


paux points traittez és Commentaires. 





Imprimé par Francois Efhene. 


M. D. LXIIL 






PM) 


B bt dite 


- 
: ree , 
‘ ieeioe: : 
ha54 
i 
c 
’ 
- 
- 
<A 
wv 
. 
. 
- 
w : 
™ = 
fas 
. 
¢ 
. * 


eek it). 2] 


— 


With M. Iohn 


Caluins Commentaries. 


oT - i 





[Ir has been thought proper to preserve Taz DepicaTiIon which is 
prefixed to the English Translation by ArrHur Gouprne in the original 
orthography. Besides affording a vivid idea of the style and phraseology 
of this Translator, the slightest inspection of this singular composition 
will demonstrate how very unsuitable the publication of such a version 
would have been for general use in these times. 

The only liberty which has been taken in reprinting this Dedication, 
is in reference to the supplying of modern punctuation, and the division 
of it into paragraphs ; but in other respects it is given verbatim et litera- 
tim. There is only one paragraph in the whole of Golding’s Dedication. 
It is dated 20th October 1571. 

Goxpine’s version of CAtyrn’s COMMENTARY ON THE PSALMs is 
throughout equally obscure and quaint; and it may justly be charac- 
terised as being wholly unfit for the perusal of all classes of readers of 
the present day, who do not happen to be minutely acquainted with the 
language and idiom of the sixteenth century in its most uncouth and 
repulsive form. ] 


THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 


[PREFIXED TO THE ORIGINAL ENGLISH TRANSLATION, 1571.] 


TO 


THE RIGHT HONORABLE AND HIS VERIE GOOD LORD, 


EDWARD DE VERE, ERLE OF OXINFORD, 


LORD GREAT CHAMBERLAIN OF ENGLAND, VICOUNT BULBECKE, &c.! 


ARTHUR GOLDING 


VVISHETH INCREACE OF GODLY KNOWLEDGE, WITH HEALTH, HONOUR, 
AND PROSPERITIE. 


Ir may, peraduenture, be thought in respect of the matter 
wherof this woork treateth, that it ought rather to haue bin 
dedicated to som of my very good Lords, the Lords Spirituall, 
or to some of the Clergie, as to whom such things seeme to 
perteine more peculiarly, by reason of theyr charge and call- 


1 Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford, was highly distinguished for 
his wit, valour, and patriotism. In two several tournaments he was 
honoured by receiving the prize from the hand of his mistress, Queen 
Elizabeth, having been led armed, by two ladies, into the Royal Presence- 
Chamber. Walpole notes that he was an admired poet, and reckoned 
the best writer of comedy in his time. He died at a very advanced age, 
June 24, 1604. 

It is extremely probable that Artuur Goxprne, the old Translator, 


__ was related, perhaps not distantly, to this nobleman. It appears from 


XXVi THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 


ing. VVhich opinion, as I purpose not to encounter, but 
rather most willingly submit my selfe and my doings to the 
iudgement and reformation of such reuerend Fathers and 
learned men, as God hath put in trust with the care of his 
flock, and the charge of his Church within this Realm, euen 
so forasmuch as the things which the Holy Ghost vttereth in 
the Sacred Scriptures belong indifferently yntoo all men, of 
what estate, degree, sex, age, or calling, so euer they be, 
without exception: I haue at this time set all other respects 
and considerations aside, and only had an eye to my dutie to- 
ward your Lordship. 

And bicause my continuall troubles and sutes in the 
Lawe (as yit ynended after more than three yeeres trauel) 
haue bereft mee of the greatest part of my time, so as I 
could not dispatch things with such expedition as other- 
wise I might haue done; my care and indeuer hath bin too 
recompence mine ouerlong silence with goodnes of matter, 
that might redound to the furtherance of our Christen 
common weale, and also be meete for your Lordship too 
looke vpon. But you, perchaunce, according too the noble 
courage and disposition of your yeeres, doo looke I should 
presente vntoo you some Historie of the Conquestes and 
affaires of mightie Princes, some treatise of the gouernment of 
common weales, some description of the platte of the whole 
Earth, or some discourse of chiualrie and feates of Armes. 
These things are, in deede, meete studies for a noble manne, 
and in their season right necessary for the common welth ; 
but as nowe I present vatoo your honour muche greater 
things, that is, to wit, true Religyon, true Godlynesse, true 
Vertue, wythout the whych, neyther force, policie, nor freend- 
ship, are of any value, neyther can any common weale, any 
Citie, any householde, or any company, bee wel gouerned, or 
haue any stable and long continuance. These be the things 
wherin your Lordship may do God, your Prince, and your 
Cuntrie, best seruice, and which do giue true nobilitie, or 
rather are the very nobilitie it self. 


Dugdale, and other authorities, that John, 16th Earl of Oxford, his 
father, married Margaret, daughter of John Golding, and sister of Sir 
Edward Golding, for his second wife, by whom he had Earl Edward, after 
whom it is likely he was named, and a daughter. 


THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY. XXVil 


The greater that you are of birth and calling, the more doo 
these things belong vnto you. ‘The greater gifts of Nature, 
the mo graces of mind, the mo worldly benefites that God 
hath bestowed vppon you, the more are you bound to be 
thankful ynto him. But thankful you cannot bee without the 
true knoweledge of him, neyther can you know him rightly 
but by his woord. For his woord is the lanterne of your 
feete, and the light of your steppes. VVhosoeuer walketh 
without it, walketh but in darkenesse, though he were other- 
wise as sharpe sighted as Linceus or Argus, and had all the 
sciences, artes, conning, eloquence, and wisedome of the 
worlde. No sound and substantiall truthe is too bee founde 
any where els saue onely there. And, therfore, the Holy 
Ghost, by the mouth of Moyses, willeth you that the lawe of 
God (that is to say, his word and doctrine) shoulde not de- 
parte from your mouth, but that you should bynde it about 
your wrists, imbroyder it vpon your garments, ingraue it vpon 
the postes of your house, and write it in the tables of your 
hart. And Dauid, speaking by the same spirite, exhorteth 
you by his owne example to set your whole delight in it, too 
oceupy your selfe in it day and night, too lay it vp in your 
hart, too set more store by it than by riches, to be mindeful 
of it, to make it your counsayler, to stick too it, too talke of 
it afore Kings and greate men, to loue it, too make your 
songs of it, to remember it night and day, too count it sweeter 
than Hony, too take it as an heritage, and too make it the ioy 
of your hart. Neyther is it without cause that GOD calleth 
so ofte vppon Magistrates and noble men by name, that they 
should be diligent in his worde. For looke how muche the 
greater burthen and charge lyeth vpon their shoulders, and 
the greater accounte they haue to make afore him ; so muche 
the greater wisedome and knoweledge haue they need of, 
which are not to be atteyned elsewhere than in his lawe. I 
beseeche your Lordship consider how God hath placed you 
vpon a high stage in the eyes of all men, as a guide, patterne, 
insample, and leader vnto others. If your vertues be vn- 
counterfayted, if your religion be sound and pure, if your 
doings be according to true godlines, you shalbe a stay to 
your cuntrie, a comforte too good men, a bridle too euil 


xxvili THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 


men, a ioy too your freends, a corzie too your enemies, and 
an increace of honor to your owne house. But if you should 
become eyther a counterfayt Protestant, ora peruerse Papist, 
or a colde and carelesse newter, (which God forbid,) the 
harme could not be expressed which you should do to your 
natiue Cuntrie. For (as Cicero, no lesse truely than wisely 
affirmeth, and as the sorrowfull dooings of our present dayes 
do too certeinly auouch) greate men hurt not the common 
weale so much by beeing euil in respect of themselues, as by 
drawing others vnto euil by their euil example. 

I assure your Lordshippe 1 write not these things as 
though I suspected you to be digressed from that soundnes 
and sinceritie wherein you were continually trayned and 
traded ynder that vigilant Viisses of our common welth, 
sometyme your Lordship’s careful Chyron or Phoenix, and 
nowe your faithful Patroclus, or as though I mistrusted your 
Lordship to be degenerated from the excellent towardnes, 
which by foreward proof hath giuen glad foretokens, and (1 
trust also) luckye hansels of an honorable age too ensue ;_ but 
bycause the loue that I owe to God and his religion, the care 
that I haue of the church and my natiue cuntrie, the dutie 
wherin Nature hath bound mee to your Lordship, and (which 
is an occasion too make all good and honest men look about 
them) the perilousnes of this present time, wherin all meanes 
possible are practized to ouerthrowe Christe’s kingdome, and 
to abolishe all faithfulnes from among men, make mee to 
feare and forecast, not so much what is true, as what may 
bee noysome and hurtful; and, therfore, I seek rather -too 
profite by wholesome admonition, than to delight by pleasant 
speeches. These be no dayes of daliance; for Sathan, the 
workmaster of all mischeef, being greued that his own king- 
dome draweth to an end, not onely goeth about like a roring 
Lyon too deuoure folke by open force, but also like a slie 
Serpent setteth snares and pitfalles innumerable, to intrap 
men and bring them to destruction by policie, laying wayt for 
all men, but specially for such as are of high estate, as who 
alwayes carye greatest nombers with them which waye so 
euer they incline. Hee turneth himselfe intoo mo shapes 
than euer did Proteus ; and suche as himselfe is, suche are his 


_ 


THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY. XXix 


ministers. First and foremost, the obstinate and stubborne- 
harted Papistes, the sworne enemies of God, the pestilent 
poyson of mankinde, and the very welsprings of all error, 
hipocrisie, and yngraciousnes, (who, while they beare sway, 
bee more cruel than Beares, V Volues, and Tigres ; and when 
they bee kept vnder, more deceitfull than Cerastes and Cro- 
codyles ; and at all times more mischeuous than the Diuel 
himselfe,) labour with tooth and nayle too winde their owne 
trash into credit with all men, and to bring the heauenly 
doctrine of the Gospel in hatred. 

_ Ageine, the Atheistes, which say in their hartes there is no 
God; and the Epicures, which depriue GOD of his proui- 
dence in gouerning the world, as though hee eyther vnder- 
stoode not what is doone vppon Earth, or els cared not for 
mennes affaires: seeke they not by all meanes possible too 
weede all Religion, all feare of GOD, all remorse of conscience 
out of mennes harts ? Out of these rootes spring other impes, 
no lesse perniciouse than the stockes of whiche they come, 
men of all Religions, Shippemen that canne sayle with all 
wethers, Carpenters that can hewe with bothe handes, Laddes 
that canne holde with the Hare and hunt with the Hounde, 
and (as the Scripture termeth them) time-seruers and men- 
pleasers. Of which sorte be the picthank Preests of Ham- 
mon, who, with the venemouse blaste of their filthie flattery, 
corrupt the wel instructed mindes of our Alexanders, (that is 
to say, of our noble men,) by bearing them in hand, that 
they bee the sonnes of Jupiter, and making them beleeue 
themselues too bee Gods, yea, sometimes before they be 
scarce men. These, after the maner of Panthers and Mer- 
maides, astonne the senses with a deadly sweetnes, and work 
destruction by delighting. Moreouer, to the further with- 
drawing of men’s minds from the estimation of the sound Re- 
ligion, it falleth out that euen in the outward face of the 
Church there be many Hipocrites, many looce liuers, many 
Sectaries, and many wranglers, whiche pretending the coun- 
tenance of Chryste’s flock, but beeing in deede the Deuil’s 
hirelings, confessing GOD with their mouth, but denying 
him in their works, cause his holy, pure, and reuerend doctrine 
to bee slaundered and ill-spoken of among the Gentiles, (that 


XXX THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 


is, too wit, among the Papist and worldlings,) and so alienate 
men from Christ. 

The ignorant sort also deeming things vntowardly by the 
outward shew, charge the Gospell with the faultes of men, 
which it reprooueth and bringeth too lyght, as who would 
say, that hee whiche bewrayeth a Murtherer, or rebuketh an 
Adulterer, were too bee counted an offender in the same 
caces, bicause hee discouereth their wickednesse, too the 
intent too haue it punished or redressed. And these are 
stumbling-blocks common to all sortes of men; but more 
peculiar to great menne are those that I spake of in the 
third place, and also these ensuing, namely, noblenesse of 
birth, renowne of Aunceters, fauor of their Prince, freend- 
ship of their peeres, awe of their inferiours, great alyances, 
greate retinewes depending vpon them, libertie aboue the 
common rate, welth, honour, riches, ease, sumptuouse fare, 
costly apparel, gorgeouse buildings, attendaunce of seruants, 
and suche other like, whiche as they bee the singuler good 
giftes and benefites of God bestowed vpon them for their 
comfort, to the end they should the more loue him and im- 
brace his truthe: So Sathan abusing the infirmitie and cor- 
ruption of man’s nature, dooth in many menne wrest them 
all too a contrary ende, namely, too the proude contempt 
and impugning, or at leastwise to the carelesse neglecting of 
God's true Religion and seruice. 

As for the fraylnesse of youth it self, the open manaces and 
priuie practizes of Antichrist, the common hatred and disdeine 
of the VVorlde ageinst the sincere worshippers of GOD, the 
hardnesse and aduersities which they endure in this life, and 
infinite other by matters whiche are no small hinderances too 
the proceeding of the Gospel, I wil not stand too intreat 
of them. For doubtlesse, although Antichr?st were abolished, 
although Sathan were a sleepe, although the world were at 
one with vs, although wicked counsel were vtterly put too 
silence, although no euil example were given ys, although 
no outwarde stumbling-blocke were cast in our waye; yit 
haue wee one thing in our selues and of our selues, (euen 
originall sinne, concupiscence, or lust,) which neuer ceaseth 
too egge vs and allure vs from God, and too staine vs with 


THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY. XXxi 


all kinde of vnclennes, according as Sainct Iames sayth: 
Euery man is tempted of his owne lust. This is the breth 
of the yenemouse Cockatrice which hath infected the whole 
offspring of Adam. This is the sting of that olde Serpent 
whose wounds neither Chyron, Aesculapius, nor Apollo, can 
heale, no, nor any wight in Heauen or Earth, saue onely 
God. This is the bitter fountame Ezxampeus, which with 
his brackishnesse marreth the sweete Riuer Hipanis, that is 
to say, the flowing streame of all God’s graces, benefites, 
and gifts in vs. 

Good cause haue we therfore to bee forewarned and con- 
tinually admonished to beware of the mischeef that is armed 
with so many weapons and policies to anoy: specially con- 
sidering how the operation therof is to slea both bodie and 
soule, and to drown them togither in to endles damnation. 
For this I dare be bolde to say vpon the warrant of assured 
truthe, that whosoeuer is but lightly blasted with the poyson 
of Papistrie, is the vnapter to all the duties of true vertue 
and godlines, like as a Cripple or lame man is the ynmeeter 
and ynabler for the affaires of this life. But as for him that 
is throughly saped in it, and hathe digested it into his bowels, 
and hath setled the roots of it in‘ the bottome of his hart; 
depending vpon the Antichrist of Rome as vpon the mouth of 
God, He can neyther be the faithful seruant of God, nor a 
hartie Subiect too his Prince, nor a good and sound member 
of the common welth, vntill hee haue done as the Snake dooth 
when he commeth to engender with the Lamprey. 


For the better manifestation of all the which things, I 
besech your good Lordship to peruse this present booke, 
which doubtlesse, for the excellency therof, not onely de- 
serueth more singular commendation than man’s wit is able 
to yeeld, but also is worthy too be had continually in all 
mennes hands, or rather too bee printed in their hartes. 
For if you haue an eye too the Authors, it was written by 
Prophets, Preestes, and Kinges, inspired with the Holye 
Ghost, the fountaine of all vnderstanding, wysedom, and 
truth, and auouched vnto vs by Christ, the Sonne of the 

euerlasting God. Or if you haue an eye to the matter, it 


XXxii THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 


conteineth a treatise of the Doctrine of lyfe and euerlasting 
Saluation, the particulars wherof are as many as are the 
points of true Religion and holinesse to Godward, or the 
points of faithfull meening and honest dealing too manward. 
And these things are common to it with the residue of holy 
Scripture. 

The thing that is peculiar to it, is the maner of the hand- 
ling of the matters wherof it treateth. For whereas other 
partes of holy writ (whither they be historicall, morall, iudi- 
ciall, ceremoniall, or propheticall) do commonly set down 
their treatizes in open and plaine declarations; this parte 
consisting of them all, wrappeth vp things in types and 
figures, describing them ynder borowed personages, and 
oftentimes winding in matters by preuention, speaking of 
thinges too come as if they were past or present, and of 
things past as if they were in dooing, and euery man is made 
a bewrayer of the secretes of his owne hart. And foras- 
muche as it consisteth cheefly of prayer and thanksgiuing, or 
(which comprehendeth them bothe) of inuocation, whiche is 
a communication with God, and requireth rather an earnest 
and deuout lifting vp of the minde, than a loud or curious 
vtterance of the voice: there be many vnperfect sentences, 
many broken speeches, and many displaced words, according 
as the voice of the partie that prayed was eyther preuented 
with the swiftnesse of his thoughtes, or interrupted with 
vehemency of ioy or greef, or forced to surcease through 
infirmitie, that hee might recouer newe strength and cheerful- 
nesse, by interminding God’s former promises and benefites. 
Notwithstanding, the obscuritie of those places is not so 
great but that it may be easely ouercome, by such as, when 
they pray, doo vtterly sequester their mindes from all earthly 
imaginations and fleshly conceits, and after a sort forsaking 
their bodies for the time, do mount vppe aboue the world by 
faith, and present themselues before the heauenly throne of 
grace, to seek the vnspeakable and inestimable comfort of 
their soules. 


Suche are the conteints, and suche is the maner or dis- 
position of the ground-worke of this booke, that is to say, of 


THE EPISTLE DEDICATORY. Xxxili 


the Psalmes themselues. VVhervnto (for the better ynder- 
standing of them) heere is added an exposition or Commen- 
tarie written in Latin by that learned Clerk and faithful 
minister of Chryst in the church of Geneua, Master John 
Caluin, whose worthy praise and commendation, his owne 
manifolde woorks moste peinfully, sincerely, and soundly 
set foorth too the greate furtherance and profite of the whole 
Christen common weale, doo better declare than my pen can 
ytter or my wit deuice. And among the reste of them, it is 
thoughte of most learned men, that next vntoo his Institutions, 
this presente volume beareth the Bel, bothe for varietie of 
matter, substantialnes of doctrine, depth of indgement, and 
perfectnesse of penning. For it is not puffed vp with vaine 
sound of emptie woords, nor with Rhetorical inlarging of 
painted sentences, but it is stuffed with piththy and grounded 
matter, such as plainly sheweth him too haue bin a man 
indued with the Spirite of God, and also well practized and 
tryed in the affaires and troubles of this world. 

VVhat is to bee thought of the translation of it, that I 
remitte to your Lordship’s fauourable acceptation, vnder whose 
Antesigne it is my desire that it may fight in the defence 
and maintenance of the true religion ageinst Antichrist and 
his wicked members. Onely thus muche I may safely say 
of it, that in all pointes (to the vttermoste of my power, 
and according to the abilitie which God hath giuen me to 
edifie withall) I haue sincerely performed the dutie of a 
faithfull Interpreter, rather indeuering too lay foorth things 
plainlye (yea, and sometimes also homely and grossely) too 
the ynderstanding of many, than too indyte things curyously 
too the pleasing of a fewe. For in this and suche other 
workes, the rude and ignorant haue more interest than the 
learned and skilful. If any thing be amisse, (as I dare not 
presume too vpholde that nothing hath escaped mee in so 
great a woorke,) my hartie desire is, that the same may be 
amended by such as are of sound iudgement and knowledge 
in God’s woorde, so as no inconuenience may ensue of it too 
the churche of Christ. And look what I request in the be- 
halfe of this present booke, the same do I request for all 
other books whiche I haue or (by God’s grace and permis- 


XXXiV TUE EPISTLE DEDICATORY. 


sion) shall heerafter put foorth for the edifying of Chrystes 
flock : for I knowe how suche things are the woork of God 
and not of man. 

VVhat remayneth then, but that your Lordship, framing 
your selfe according to the rule of God’s most holy word, 
should hie you apace to the atteinment of the true honour 
and immortall glory, by subduing sinne, the world, and the 
Deuil, the Hectors that cannot bee vanquished but by a 
christen Achilles ; and by your good guyding bring many vnto 
Christ, that in the end you may receiue the rewarde of true 
and perfect blissednesse, euen the euerlasting saluation of the 
soule, whiche is the faire Helen for whose safetie it behooueth 
all good men too endure, not tenne yeeres warre, but continuall 
warre all their life long. ‘To the furtherance wherof, God hath 
by householde alyance lincked ynto your Lordship a long ex- 
perienced Nestor, whose counsaile and footsteps if you folowe, 
no doubte but you shalbee bothe happie in your selfe, and 
singularly profitable to your common welth; and moreouer, 
God shall blisse you with plentiful and godly issue by your 
vertuous and deerbeloued Spouse, to continew the honour 
and renowne of your noble house after the happy knitting 
yp of bothe your yeeres, which I pray God may bee many in 

vnseperable loue, like the loue of Ceix and Alcyonee, 
to the glory of God, and the contentation 
of bothe your desires. 
VVritten at London, the xx. of 
October 1571. 


{{ Your good Lordship’s moste humble 


to commaund, Arthur Golding. 


ae 


-- ————— 





THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. 


JOHN CALVIN 
TO THE GODLY AND INGENIOUS READERS, 


GREETING, 


Ir the reading of these my COMMENTARIES confer as much 
benefit on the Church of God as I myself have reaped advan- 
tage from the composition of them, I shall have no reason to 
regret that I have undertaken this work. Having expound- 
ed here, in our small school, the Book of Psalms, about three 
years ago, I thought that I had by this means sufliciently 
_ discharged my duty, and had resolved not to publish to the 
world what I had familiarly taught those of my own house- 
hold. And, in fact, before I had undertaken to expound this 
book in my lectures, at the request of my brethren, I said 
what was true, that I had kept away from this subject, 
because that most faithful teacher of the Church of God, 
Martin Bucer, had laboured in this field with such singular 
Jearning, diligence, fidelity, and success, that at least there 
was not so great need that I should put my hand to the 
work. And had the Commentaries of Wolphangus Mus- 
culus at that time been published, I would not have omitted 
_ todo them justice, by mentioning them in the same way, 
since he too, in the judgment of good men, has earned no 
small praise by his diligence and industry in this walk. I 
had not yet come to the end of the book, when, lo! Iam urged 
by renewed solicitations not to suffer my lectures, which 
certain persons had carefully, faithfully, and not without 


XXXVi THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. 


great labour, taken down, to be lost to the world. My pur- 
pose still remained unaltered ; only I promised what for a long 
time I had been thinking of, to write something on the 
subject in the French language, that my countrymen might 
not be without the means of being enabled to understand so 
useful a book when perusing it. Whilst I am thinking of 
making this attempt, suddenly, and contrary to my first 
design, it occurred to me, by what impulse I know not, to 
compose in Latin, only as it were in the way of trial, an 
exposition of one Psalm. When I found that my success 
corresponded to my desire far beyond what I had ventured 
to anticipate, I was encouraged, and accordingly began to 
make the same attempt in a few other Psalms. On perceiy- 
ing this, my intimate friends, as if in this way they held me 
bound, urged me with the greater confidence not to desist 
from my course. One reason which made me comply with 
their solicitations, and which also had from the commencement 
induced me to make this first attempt, was an apprehension 
that at some future period what had been taken down from 
my lectures, might be published to the world contrary to my 
wishes, or at least without my knowledge. I can truly say, 
that I was drawn to execute this work rather from such an 
apprehension, than led to it from my own free will. At the 
same time, as I continued to prosecute the work, I began to 
perceive more distinctly that this was by no means a super- 
fluous undertaking, and I have also felt from my own indi- 
vidual experience, that to readers who are not so exercised, 
I would furnish important assistance in understanding The 
Psalms. 

The varied and resplendid riches which are contained in 
this treasury it is no easy matter to express in words; so 
much so, that I well know that whatever I shall be able 
to say will be far from approaching the excellence of the 
subject. But as it is better to give to my readers some 
taste, however small, of the wonderful advantages they will 
derive from the study of this book, than to be entirely silent 
on the point, I may be permitted briefly to advert to a matter, 
the greatness of which does not admit of being fully unfolded. 
I have been accustomed to call this book, I think not inap- 





THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. XXXVill 


propriately, “ An Anatomy of all the Parts of the Soul ;” for 
there is not an emotion of which any one can be conscious 
that is not here represented as ina mirror. Or rather, the 
Holy Spirit has here drawn to the life all the griefs, sorrows, 
fears, doubts, hopes, cares, perplexities, in short, all the dis- 
tracting emotions with which the minds of men are wont to be 
agitated. The other parts of Scripture contain the command- 
ments which God enjoined his servants to announce to us. 
But here the prophets themselves, seeing they are exhibited 
to us as speaking to God, and laying open all their inmost 
thoughts and affections, call, or rather draw, each of us to the 
examination of himself in particular, in order that none of the 
many infirmities to which we are subject, and of the many 
vices with which we abound, may remain concealed. It is 
certainly a rare and singular advantage, when all lurking 
places are discovered, and the heart is brought into the light, 
purged from that most baneful infection, hypocrisy. In 
I short, as calling upon God is one of the principal means of 
securing our safety, and as a better and more unerring rule 
for guiding us in this exercise cannot be found elsewhere 
‘than in The Psalms, it follows, that in proportion to the profi- 
. ciency which a man shallhave attained in understanding them, 
_ will be his knowledge of the most important part of celestial 
_Aoctrine. Genuine and earnest prayer proceeds first from a 


"sense of our need, and next, from faith in the promises of 


God. It is by perusing these inspired compositions, that 
men will be most effectually awakened to a sense of their 
maladies, and, at the same time, instructed in seeking reme- 

dies for their cure. Ina word, whatever may serve to encou- 
_ Yage us when we are about to pray to God, is taught us in 
this book. And not only are the promises of God pre- 
‘sented to us in it, but oftentimes there is exhibited to us 
_one standing, as it were, amidst the invitations of God on the 
one hand, and the impediments of the flesh on the other, 
girding and preparing himself for prayer: thus teaching 
‘us, if at any time we are agitated with a variety of doubts, 
to resist and fight against them, until the soul, freed and 
disentangled from all these impediments, rise up to God ; 
and not only so, but even when in the midst of doubts, fears, 
- and apprehensions, let us put forth our efforts in prayer, 
VOL, I. d 


XXXVili THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. 


until we experience some consolation which may calm and 
bring contentment to our minds.’ Although distrust may 
shut the gate against our prayers, yet we must not allow 
ourselves to give way, whenever our hearts waver or are agi- 
tated with inquietude, but must persevere until faith finally 
come forth victorious from these conflicts. In many places we 
may perceive the exercise of the servants of God in prayer 
so fluctuating, that they are almost overwhelmed by the 
alternate hope of success and apprehension of failure, and 
gain the prize only by strenuous exertions. We see on the 
one hand, the flesh manifesting its infirmity; and on the 
other, faith putting forth its power; and if it is not so valiant 
and courageous as might be desired, it is at least prepared to 
fight until by degrees it acquire perfect strength. But as 
those things which serve to teach us the true method of 
praying aright will be found scattered through the whole of 
this Commentary, I will not now stop to treat of topies 
which it will be necessary afterwards to repeat, nor detain 
my readers from ~proceeding to the work itself. Only it 
appeared to me to be requisite to show in passing, that this 


' book makes known to us this privilege, which is desirable 


above all others—that not only is there opened up to us fami- 
liar access to God, but also that we have permission and 
freedom granted us to lay open before him our infirmities, 


which we would be ashamed to confess before men. Besides, 


there is also here prescribed to us an infallible rule for direct- 
ing us with respect to the right manner of offering to God 
the sacrifice of praise, which he declares to be most precious 
in his sight, and of the sweetest odour. There is no other 
book in which there is to be found more express and magni- 
ficent commendations, both of the unparalleled liberality of 
God towards his Church, and of all his works; there is no 
other book in which there is recorded so many deliverances, 
nor one in which the evidences and experiences of the fatherly 
providence and solicitude which God exercises towards us, 
are celebrated with such splendour of diction, and yet with 
the strictest adherence to truth; in short, there is no other 


1 Jusqu’i ce que nous sentions quelque allegement qui nous appaise 
et contente.”—Fr. 








THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. XXXIx 


book in which we are more perfectly taught the right manner 
of praising God, or in which we are more powerfully stirred 
up to the performance of this religious exercise. Moreover, 
although The Psalms are replete with all the precepts which 
serve to frame our life to every part of holiness, piety, and 
righteousness, yet they will principally teach and train us to 
bear the cross; and the bearing of the cross is a genuine 
proof of our obedience, since by doing this, we renounce the 
guidance of our own affections, and submit ourselves entirely 
to God, leaving him to govern us, and to dispose of our life 
according to his will, so that the afflictions which are the 
bitterest and most severe to our nature, become sweet to us, 
because they proceed from him. In one word, not only will we 
here find general commendations of the goodness of God, 
which may teach men to repose themselves in him alone, and 
to seek all their happiness solely in him; and which are 
intended to teach true believers with their whole hearts 
confidently to look to him for help in all their necessities ; 
but we will also find that the free remission of sins, which 
alone reconciles God towards us, and procures for us settled 
‘peace with him, is so set forth and magnified, as that here 
there is nothing wanting which relates to the knowledge of 
eternal salvation. 
- Now, if my readers derive any fruit and advantage from 
the labour which I have bestowed in writing these Commen- 
taries, I would have them to understand that the small 
- measure of experience which I have had by the conflicts with 
which the Lord has exercised me, has in no ordinary degree 
assisted me, not only in applying to present use whatever 
instruction could be gathered from these divine compositions, 
but also in more easily comprehending the design of each of 
the writers. And as David holds the principal place among 
them, it has greatly aided me in understanding more fully 
the complaints made by him of the internal afflictions which 
the Church had to sustain through those who gave them- 
selves out to be her members, that I had suffered the same 


+ Et nous acquiert tranquillite de conscience devant luy.”—Fr. “ And 
Nagas for us tranquillity of conscience before him.” 


xl THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 


or similar things from the domestic enemies of the Church. 
For although I follow David at a great distance, and come 
far short of equalling him; or rather, although in aspiring 
slowly and with great difficulty to attain to the many virtues 
in which he excelled, I still feel myself tarnished with the 
contrary vices; yet if I have any things in common with him, 
I have no hesitation in comparing myself with him. In 
reading the instances of his faith, patience, fervour, zeal, 
and integrity, it has, as it ought, drawn from me unnumbered 
groans and sighs, that I am so far from approaching them ; 
but it has, notwithstanding, been of very great advantage to 
me to behold in him as in a mirror, both the commencement 
of my calling, and the continued course of my function; so 
that I know the more assuredly, that whatever that most 
illustrious king and prophet suffered, was exhibited to me by 
God as an example for imitation. My condition, no doubt, 
is much inferior to his, and it is unnecessary for me to stay 
to show this. But as he was taken from the sheepfold, and 
elevated to the rank of supreme authority; so God having 
taken me from my originally obscure and humble condition, 
has reckoned me worthy of being invested with the honour- 
able office of a preacher and minister of the gospel. When 
I was as yet a very little boy, my father had destined me for 
the study of theology. But afterwards, when he considered 
that the legal profession commonly raised those who followed 
it to wealth, this prospect induced him suddenly to change 
his purpose. Thus it came to pass, that I was withdrawn 
from the study of philosophy, and was put to the study of 
law. To this pursuit I endeavoured faithfully to apply 
myself, in obedience to the will of my father; but God, by the 
secret guidance of his providence, at length gave a different 
direction tomy course. And first, since I was too obstinately 
devoted to the superstitions of Popery to be easily extricated 
from so profound an abyss of mire, God by a sudden conver- 
sion subdued and brought my mind to a teachable frame, 
which was more hardened in such matters than might 
have been expected from one at my early period of life, 


Having thus received some taste and knowledge of true 


godliness, I was immediately inflamed with so intense a desire 





THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. xli 


to make progress therein, that although I did not altogether 
leave off other studies, I yet pursued them with less ardour. 
I was quite surprised to find that before a year had elapsed, 
all who had any desire after purer doctrine were continually 
coming to me to learn, although I myself was as yet but a 
mere novice and tyro. Being of a disposition somewhat 
unpolished and bashful, which led me always to love the 
shade and retirement, I then began to seek some secluded 
corner where I might be withdrawn from the public view ; 
but so far from being able to accomplish the object of my 
desire, all my retreats were like public schools. In short, 
whilst my one great object was to live in seclusion without 
being known, God so led me about through different turnings 
and changes, that he never permitted me to rest in any place, 
until, in spite of my natural disposition, he brought me forth to 
public notice. Leaving my native country, France, I in 
fact retired into Germany, expressly for the purpose of being 
able there to enjoy in some obscure corner the repose which 
I had always desired, and which had been so long denied 
me. But lo! whilst I lay hidden at Basle, and known only 
to a few people, many faithful and holy persons were burnt 
alive in France; and the report of these burnings having 
reached foreign nations, they excited the strongest disappro- 
bation among a great part of the Germans, whose indigna- 
tion was kindled against the authors of such tyranny. In 
-order to allay this indignation, certain wicked and lying 
pamphlets were circulated, stating, that none were treated 
with such cruelty but Anabaptists and seditious persons, who, 
by their perverse ravings and false opinions, were overthrow- 
ing not only religion but also all civil order. Observing 
that the object which these instruments of the court aimed at 
by their disguises, was not only that the disgrace of shedding 
so much innocent blood might remain buried under the false 
charges and calumnies which they brought against the holy 
martyrs after their death, but also, that afterwards they 
might be able to proceed to the utmost extremity in murder- 
ing the poor saints without exciting compassion towards them 
in the breasts of any, it appeared to me, that unless I opposed 
them to the utmost of my ability, my silence could not be 


xlii THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 


vindicated from the charge of cowardice and treachery. 
This was the consideration which induced me to publish 
my Institute of the Christian Religion. My objects were, 
first, to prove that these reports were false and calumnious, 
and thus to vindicate my brethren, whose death was pre- 
cious in the sight of the Lord; and next, that as the same 
cruelties might very soon after be exercised against many 
unhappy individuals, foreign nations might be touched with 
at least some compassion towards them and solicitude about 
them. When it was then published, it was not that copious 
and laboured work which it now is, but only a small treatise 
containing a summary of the principal truths of the Christian 
religion ; and it was published with no other design than 
that men might know what was the faith held by those whom 
I saw basely and wickedly defamed by those flagitious and 
perfidious flatterers. That my object was not to acquire 
fame, appeared from this, that immediately after I left Basle, 
and particularly from the fact that nobody there knew that I 
was the author. 

Wherever else I have gone, I have taken care to conceal 
that I was the author of that performance ; and I had resolved 
to continue in the same privacy and obscurity, until at length 
William Farel detained me at Geneva, not so much by coun- 
sel and exhortation, as by a dreadful imprecation, which I 
felt to be as if God had from heaven laid his mighty hand 
upon me to arrest me. As the most direct road to Stras- 
burg, to which I then intended to retire, was shut up by the 
wars, I had resolved to pass quickly by Geneva, without 
staying longer than a single night in that city. A little 
before this, Popery had been driven from it by the exertions 
of the excellent person whom I have named, and Peter 
Viret ; but matters were not yet brought to a settled state, 
and the city was divided into unholy and dangerous factions. 
Then an individual who now basely apostatised and returned 
to the Papists, discovered me and made me known to others. 
Upon this, Farel, who burned with an extraordinary zeal to 
advance the gospel, immediately strained every nerve to 
detain me. And after having learned that my heart was set 
upon devoting myself to private studies, for which I wished to 


THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. xliii 


keepmyself free from other pursuits, and finding that he gained 
nothing by entreaties, he proceeded to utter an imprecation 
that God would curse my retirement, and the tranquillity of 
the studies which I sought, if I should withdraw and refuse 
to give assistance, when the necessity was so urgent. By 
this imprecation I was so stricken with terror, that I desisted 
from the journey which I had undertaken ; but sensible of my 
natural bashfulness and timidity, I would not bring myself 
under obligation to discharge any particular office. After 
that, four months had scarcely elapsed, when, on the one 
hand, the Anabaptists began to assail us, and, on the other, a 
certain wicked apostate, who being secretly supported by the 
influence of some of the magistrates of the city, was thus 
enabled to give usa great deal oftrouble. At the same time, 
a succession of dissensions fell out in the city! which strangely 
afflicted us. Being, as I acknowledge, naturally of a timid, 
soft, and pusillanimous disposition, I was compelled to 
encounter these violent tempests as part of my early train- 
ing; and although I did not sink under them, yet I was not 
sustained by such greatness of mind, as not to rejoice more 
than it, became me, when, in consequence of certain com- 
motions, I was banished from Geneva. 

By this means set at liberty and loosed from the tie of my 
vocation, I resolved to live in a private station, free from the 
burden and cares of any public charge, when that most excel- 
lent servant of Christ, Martin Bucer, employing a similar kind 
of remonstrance and protestation as that to which Farel had 
recourse before, drew me back to anewstation. Alarmed by 
the example of Jonas which he set before me, I still continued 
in the work of teaching. And although I alwayscontinued like 
myself, studiously avoiding celebrity ;? yet I wascarried, I know 
not how, as it were by force to the Imperial assemblies, where, 
willing or unwilling, I was under the necessity of appearing 
before the eyes of many. Afterwards, when the Lord having 


1 Cependant surveindrent en la ville seditions les unes sur les autres.” — 


24 C’est, ascavoir de ne vouloir point apparoistre ou suyvre les grandes 
assemblees."—F'r. ‘‘ That is, not wishing to appear before, or wait upon, 
the great assemblies.” 


xliv THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. 


compassion on this city, had allayed the hurtful agitations 
and broils which prevailed in it, and by his wonderful power 
had defeated both the wicked counsels and the sanguinary 
attempts of the disturbers of the Republic, necessity was 
imposed upon me of returning to my former charge, contrary 
to my desire and inclination. The welfare of this church, it 
is true, lay so near my heart, that for its sake I would not 
have hesitated to lay down my life; but my timidity neyer- 
theless suggested to me many reasons for excusing myself 
from again willingly taking upon my shoulders so heavy a 
burden. At length, however, a solemn and conscientious 
regard to my duty, prevailed with me to consent to return to 
the flock from which I had been torn; but with what grief, 
tears, great anxiety and distress I did this, the Lord is my 
best witness, and many godly persons who would have wished 
to see me delivered from this painful state, had it not been 
that that which I feared, and which made me give my con- 
sent, prevented them and shut their mouths. 

Were I to narrate the various conflicts by which the Lord 
has exercised me since that time, and by what trials he has 
proved me, it would make a long history. But that 1 may 
not become tedious to my readers by a waste of words, I 
shall content myself with repeating briefly what I have 
touched upon a little before, that in considering the whole 
course of the life of David,' it seemed to me that by his own 
footsteps he showed me the way, and from this I have expe- 
rienced no small consolation. As that holy king was 
harassed by the Philistines and other foreign enemies with 
continual wars, while he was much more grievously afflicted 
by the malice and wickedness of some perfidious men amongst 
his own people, so I can say as to myself, that I have been 
assailed on all sides, and have scarcely been able to enjoy 
repose for a single moment, but have always had to sustain 
some conflict either from enemies without or within the 
Church. Satan has made many attempts to overthrow the 
fabric of this Church; and once it came to this, that I, alto- 
gether feeble and timorous as I am, was compelled to break 
and put a stop to his deadly assaults by putting my life in 


1 “ Qu’en considerant tout le discours de la vie de David.” —F*. 


iE a 


\ 


THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. xlv 


danger, and opposing my person to his blows. Afterwards, 
for the space of five years, when some wicked libertines were 
furnished with undue influence, and also some of the common 
people, corrupted by the allurements and perverse discourse 
of such persons, desired to obtain the liberty of doing whatever 
they pleased, without control, I was under the necessity of 
fighting without ceasing to defend and maintain the disci- 
pline of the Church. To these irreligious characters and 
despisers of the heavenly doctrine, it was a matter of entire 
indifference, although the Church should sink into ruin, pro- 
vided they obtained what they sought,—the power of acting 
just as they pleased. Many, too, harassed by poverty and 
hunger, and others impelled by insatiable ambition or 
avarice and a desire of dishonest gain, were become so frantic, 
that they chose rather, by throwing all things into confusion, 
to involve themselves and us in one common ruin, than to 
remain quiet by living peaceably and honestly.!. During the 
whole of this lengthened period, I think that there is scarcely 
any of the weapons which are forged in the workshop of 
Satan, which has not been employed by them in order to 
obtain their object. And at length matters had come to 
such a state, that an end could be put to their machinations 
~ in no other way than cutting them off by an ignominious 
death ; which was indeed a painful and pitiable spectacle to 
me. They no doubt deserved the severest punishment, but 
I always rather desired that they might live in prosperity, 
and continue safe and untouched; which would have been 
the case had they not been altogether incorrigible, and obsti- 
nately refused to listen to wholesome admonition. 

The trial of these five years was grievous and hard to bear ; 
but I experienced not less excruciating pain from the malig- 
nity of those who ceased not to assail myself and my minis- 
try with their envenomed calumnies. A great proportion of 
them, it is true, are so blinded by a passion for slander and 
detraction, that to their great disgrace, they betray at once 
their impudence, while others, however crafty and cunning, 
cannot so cover or disguise themselves as to escape being 
shamefully convicted and disgraced ; yet when a man has 


. ' Que se tenir quois en vivant paisiblement et honnestement.”—Fr. 


xlvi THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 


been a hundred times found innocent of a charge brought 
against him, and when the charge is again repeated without 
any cause or occasion, it is an indignity hard to bear. 
Because I affirm and maintain that the world is managed and 
governed by the secret providence of God, a multitude of 
presumptuous men rise up against me, and allege that I 
represent God as the author of sin. This is so foolish a 
calumny, that it would of itself quickly come to nothing, did 
it not meet with persons who have tickled ears, and who take 
pleasure in feeding upon such discourse. But there are many 
whose minds are so filled with envy and spleen, or ingrati- 
tude, or malignity, that there is no falsehood, however pre- 
posterous, yea, even monstrous, which they do not receive, 
if it is spoken to them. Others endeayour to overthrow 
God’s eternal purpose of predestination, by which he distin- 
guishes between the reprobate and the elect; others take 
upon them to defend free will; and forthwith many throw 
themselves into their ranks, not so much through ignorance 
as by a perversity of zeal which I know not how to charac- 
terise. If they were open and avowed enemies, who brought 
these troubles upon me, the thing might in some way be 
borne. But that those who shroud themselves under the 
name of brethren, and not only eat Christ’s sacred bread, but 
also administer it to others, that those, in short, who loudly 
boast of being preachers of the gospel, should wage such 
nefarious war against me, how detestable is it? In this mat- 
ter I may very justly complain with David, “ Yea, mine own 
familiar friend, in whom I trusted, who did eat of my bread, 
hath lifted up his heel against me,” (Ps. xli. 9.) “ For it was 
not an enemy that reproached me; but it was thou, a man 
mine equal, my guide, and mine acquaintance. We took 
sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house of God in 
company,” (Ps. lv, 12, 13, 14.) Others circulated ridiculous 
reports concerning my treasures ; others, of the extravagant 
authority and enormous influence which they say I possess; 
others speak of my delicacies and magnificence. But when 
a man is content with scanty food and common clothing, 
and does not require from the humblest more frugality than 
he shows and practises himself, shall it be said that such an 








THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. xvii 


one is too sumptuous, and lives in too high a style? As to 
the power and influence of which they envy me, I wish I 
could discharge this burden upon them; for they estimate 
my power by the multitude of affairs, and the vast weight 
of labours with which I am overwhelmed. And if there are 
some whom I cannot persuade whilst I am alive that I am not 
rich, my death at length will prove it. I confess, indeed, 
that Lam not poor; for I desire nothing more than what I 
have. All these are invented stories, and there is no colour 
whatever for any one of them ; but many nevertheless are very 
easily persuaded of their truth, and applaud them; and the 
reason is, because the greatest part judge that the only 
means of cloaking their enormities is to throw all things into 
disorder, and to confound black and white; and they think 
that the best and shortest way by which they can obtain full 
liberty to live with impunity just as they please, is to destroy 
the authority of Christ’s servants. 

In addition to these, there are “the hypocritical mockers 
in feasts,” of whom David complains, (Ps. xxxv. 16 ;) and I 
mean by these not only lick-dish characters, who seek a 
meal to fill their belly,! but all those who by false reports 
seek to obtain the favour of the great. Having been long 
~ accustomed to swallow such wrongs as these, I have become 
almost hardened ; yet when the insolence of such characters 
increases, I cannot but sometimes feel my heart wounded 
with bitter pangs. Nor was it enough that I should be so 
inhumanly treated by my neighbours. In addition to this, 
in a distant country towards the frozen ocean, there was 
raised, 1 know not how, by the frenzy of a few, a storm 
which afterwards stirred up against me a vast number of 
persons, who are too much at leisure, and have nothing to 
do but by their bickering to hinder those who are labouring 
for the edification of the Church.? I am still speaking of the 

1“ co hh’, . “ps, . 

Sof pte eat ege Ties les frians qui cherchent quelque lippee 

2 Mais encore ce n’estoit pas assez d’estre traitté ainsi inhumainement 
par mes yoisins, si non qu’en un pays lointain vers la mer glacee le temps 
se troublast aussi je ne scay comment par la phrenesie d’aucuns, pour puis 
apres fuire lever contre moy comme un nuee de gens qui sont trop de 


loisir et n’ont que faire s'ils ne s’escarmouschent & empescher ceux qui 
travaillent a edification.” —Fr. 


xlvili THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 


internal enemies of the Church—of those who, boasting 
mightily of the gospel of Christ, nevertheless rush against 
me with greater impetuosity than against the open adver- 
saries of the Church, because I do not embrace their gross 
and fictitious notion concerning a carnal way of eating Christ 
in the sacrament; and of whom I may protest, after the 
example of David, “I am for peace; but when I speak, they 
are for war,” (Ps. cxx. 7.) Moreover, the cruel ingrati- 
tude of all of them is manifest in this, that they seruple not 
to assail both in flank and rear a man who strenuously 
exerts himself to maintain a cause which they have in com- 
mon with him, and whom therefore they ought to aid and 
succour. Certainly, if such persons were possessed of even 
a small portion of humanity, the fury of the Papists which is 
directed against me with such unbridled violence, would 
appease the most implacable animosity which they may bear 
towards me. But since the condition of David was such, 


ate 


that though he had deserved well of his own people, he was 


nevertheless bitterly hated by many without a cause, as he 
complains in Ps. lxix. 4, “I restored that which I took not 
away,” it afforded me no small consolation when I was 
groundlessly assailed by the hatred of those who ought to 
have assisted and solaced me, to conform myself to the 
example of so great and so excellent a person. This know- 
ledge and experience have been of much service in enabling 
me to understand The Psalms, so that in my meditations upon 
them, I did not wander, as it were, in an unknown region. 
My readers, too, if I mistake not, will observe, that in 
unfolding the internal affections both of David and of others, 
I discourse upon them as matters of which I have familiar 
experience. Moreover, since I have laboured faithfully to 
open up this treasure for the use of all the people of God, 
although what I have done has not been equal to my wishes, 
yet the attempt which I have made deserves to be received 
with some measure of favour. Still I only ask that each may 
judge of my labours with justice and candour, according to 
the advantage and fruit which he shall derive from them, 
Certainly, as I have said before, in reading these Commen- 
taries, it will be clearly seen that I have not sought to please, 





THE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. xlix 


unless in so far as I might at the same time be profitable to 
others. And, therefore, I have not only observed through- 
out a simple style of teaching, but in order to be removed 
the farther from all ostentation, I have also generally 
abstained from refuting the opinions of others, although this 
presented a more favourable opportunity for plausible display, 
and of acquiring the applause of those who shall favour my 
book with a perusal. I have never touched upon opposite 
opinions, unless where there was reason to fear, that by being 
silent respecting them, I might leave my readers in doubt 
and perplexity. At the same time, I am sensible that it 
would have been much more agreeable to the taste of many, 
had I heaped together a great mass of materials which has 
great show, and acquires fame for the writer; but I have felt 
nothing to be of more importance than to have a regard to 
the edification of the Church. May God, who has implanted 
this desire in my heart, grant by his grace that the success 
may correspond thereto ! 


GENEVA, July 22, 1557. 


ag Gaht Weak ? -muisn lotion (ei 






tip ih dailies finch ert hat + fiylies-2 “a 8 
vd f Deo epee ee tier Syngl Lo exaitee (i ae 
SOE he OS WEA i fui uarhoes} Me ‘otiite ; 


va Raurosts tec Fe pf Lip Bte, a4 mys . Ea | sag 
CRORE aia Ad ep trogtps oh Lowen vr: 


, # (ys 


ite 


eek tei Y Serbo hy 2 eee 








‘uel sie ark SA att 


vi 
fF (if: eud a Le ata Kang vomliga ag 


TUE ROBIN Dok ora LeG i J one eae nt 
PL dred abe re ysl? ‘adh, Aart 7) ris (i Bag 


7 rok ab ped Wives heagte sh Dees 
ey MY tates) ob Bt 
ft big Led Loaiveg ied ce a 


‘ia eee 


TC y we * 
_ 










A iS 


a 


| BOOK OF PSA 


LMS. 





i AT AAM EG Ue: 


COMMENTARY 


UPON 


THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 


PSALM I. 


He who collected the Psalms into one volume, whether Ezra or some 
other person, appears to have placed this Psalm at the beginning, by 
way of preface, in which he inculcates upon all the godly the duty of 
meditating upon the law of God. The sum and substance of the whole 
is, that they are blessed who apply their hearts to the pursuit of 
heavenly wisdom ; whereas the profane despisers of God, although for 
a time they may reckon themselves happy, shall at length have a 
most miserable end. 


1. Blessed is the man who walketh not in the counsel of the 
ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in 
the seat of the scorner. 

2. But his delight is in the law of Jehovah ; and in his law doth 
he meditate day and night. 


1. Blessed is the man.‘ The meaning of the Psalmist, as I 
have stated above, is, that it shall be always well with God’s 
deyout servants, whose constant endeavour it is to make 


1In the Septuagint, the reading is, waxaesog dvne, blessed is the man. 
Both Calvin and our English translators have adopted this rendering. 
But the Hebrew word wex, ashre, rendered blessed, is in the plural num- 
ber, and wx, ha-ish, the man, in the singular. Accordingly, the wordshave 
been considered as an exclamation, and may be li ly rendered, O, 
the blessednesses of the man! a beautiful and emphatic form of expression. 


VOL. I. A 


2 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM I. 


progress in the study of his law. The greater part of man- 
kind being accustomed to deride the conduct of the saints as 
mere simplicity, and to regard their labour as entirely thrown 
away, it was of importance that the righteous should be 
confirmed in the way of holiness, by the consideration of the 
miserable condition of all men without the blessing of God, 
and the conviction that God is favourable to none but those 
who zealously devote themselves to the study of divine truth. 
Moreover, as corruption has always prevailed in the world, 
to such a degree, that the general character of men’s lives is 
nothing else but a continual departure from the law of God, 
the Psalmist, before asserting the blessedness of the students 
of the divine law, admonishes them to beware of being car- 
ried away by the ungodliness of the multitude around them. 
Commencing with a declaration of his abhorrence of the 
wicked, he teaches us how impossible it is for any one to apply 
his mind to meditation upon God’s law, who has not first 
withdrawn and separated himself from the society of the 
ungodly. A needful admonition surely; for we see how 
thoughtlessly men will throw themselves into the snares of 
Satan; at least, how few comparatively there are who guard 
‘ against the enticements of sin. That we may be fully ap- 
prised of our danger, it is necessary to remember that the 
world is fraught with deadly corruption, and that the first 
step to living well is to renounce the company of the ungod- 
ly, otherwise it is sure to infect us with its own pollution. 
As the prophet, in the first place, enjoins the godly to 
beware of temptations to evil, we shall follow the same order. 
His affirmation, that they are blessed who have no fellow- 
ship with the ungodly, is what the common feeling and 
opinion of mankind will scarcely_admit; for while all men 
naturally desire and seek after happiness, we see how secure- 
ly they can indulge themselves in their sins, yea, that those 
of them who have departed farthest from righteousness, in 
the gratification of their lusts, are accounted happy, because 
they obtain the desires of their heart. The prophet, on the 
contrary, here teaches that no man can be duly animated to 
the fear and service of God, and to the study of his law, un- 
til he is firmly persuaded that all the ungodly are miserable, 


PSALM I. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 3 


and that they who do not withdraw from their company shall 
be involved in the same destruction with them. But as it is 
no easy matter to shun the ungodly with whom we are 
mingled in the world, so as to be wholly estranged from 
them, the Psalmist, in order to give the greater emphasis to 
his exhortation, employs a multiplicity of expressions. 

In the first place, he forbids us to walk in their counsel ; in 
the second place, to stand in their way; and, lastly, to sit in 
their seat. 

~The sum of the whole is, that the servants of God must 
endeavour utterly to abhor the life of ungodly men. But as 
it is the policy of Satan to insinuate his deceits, in a very 
crafty way, the prophet, in order that none may be insensibly 
deceived, shows how by little and little men are ordinarily 
induced to turn aside from the right path. They do not, at 
the first step, advance so far as a proud contempt of God; 
but having once begun to give ear to evil counsel, Satan 
leads them, step by step, farther astray, till they rush head- 
long into open transgression. The prophet, therefore, begins 
with counsel, by which term I understand the wickedness 
which does not as yet show itself openly. Then he speaks of 
the way, which is to be understood of the customary mode 
or manner of living. And he places at the top of the climax 
the seat, by which metaphorical expression he designates the 
obduracy produced by the habit of a sinful life. In the same 
way, also, ought the three phrases, to walk, to stand, and to 
sit, to be understood. When a person willingly walks after 
the gratification of his corrupt lusts, the practice of sinning 
so infatuates him, that, forgetful of himself, he grows har- 
dened in wickedness; and this the prophet terms standing in 
the way of sinners. Then at length follows a desperate obsti- 
nacy, which he expresses by the figure of sitting. Whether 
there is the same gradation in the Hebrew words D°Yw%, 
reshaim, DYSON, chataim, and HY", letsim, that is to say, a 
gradual increase of evil, I leave to the judgment of 
others. To me it does not appear that there is, unless, 
perhaps, in the last word. For those are called scorners 
who, having thrown off all fear of God, commit sin without 


? C’est & dire, un accroissement de mal comme par degrez.— Fr. 


4 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM I, 


restraint, in the hope of escaping unpunished, and without 
compunction or fear sport at the judgment of God, as if 
they would never be called to render up an account to 
him. The Hebrew word D'NON, chataim, as it signifies 
the openly wicked, is very properly joined with the term 
way, which signifies a professed and habitual manner of 
living.t And if, in the time of the Psalmist, it was ne- 
cessary for the devout worshippers of God to withdraw 
themselves from the company of the ungodly, in order to 
frame their life aright, how much more in the present day, 
when the world has become so much more corrupt, ought 
we carefully to avoid all dangerous society, that we may be 
kept unstained by its impurities. The prophet, however, 
not only commands the faithful to keep at a distance from 
the ungodly, from the dread of being infected by them, but 
his admonition further implies, that every one should be 
careful not to corrupt himself, nor abandon himself to im- 
piety.” A man may not have contracted defilement from 
evil examples, and yet come to resemble the wicked by 
spontaneously imitating their corrupt manners. 

In the second verse, the Psalmist does not simply pro- 
nounce those happy who fear God, as in other places, but 
designates godliness by the study of the law, teaching 
us that God is only rightly served when his law is obeyed. 
It is not left to every man to frame a system of reli- 
gion according to his own judgment, but the standard of 
godliness is to be taken from the Word of God. When 
David here speaks of the law, it ought not to be under- 
stood as if the other parts of Scripture should be excluded, but 
rather, since the whole of Scripture is nothing else than an 
exposition of the law, under it as the head is comprehended 
the whole body. The prophet, therefore, in commending the 
law, includes all the rest of the inspired writings. He must, 
therefore, be understood as meaning to exhort the faithful 
to the reading of the Psalms also. From his characterizing 
the godly as delighting in the law of the Lord, we may 


‘Tl est bien conjoint avec le verbe signifiant une profession de vivre et 
un train tout accoustumé,—Fr. 
2 Et s’adonner de soy-mesme & impiete.—Fr. 


PSALM I. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 5 


learn that forced or servile obedience is not at all acceptable 
to God, and that those only are worthy students of the law 
who come to it with a cheerful mind, and are so delighted 
with its instructions, as to account nothing more desirable 
or delicious than to make progress therein. From this love 
of the law proceeds constant meditation upon it, which 
the prophet mentions in the last clause of the verse; for all 
who are truly actuated by love to the law must feel pleasure 
in the diligent study of it. 


3. He shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of waters, that 
bringeth forth his fruit in his season ; whose leaf shall not 
wither ; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. 


The Psalmist here illustrates, and, at the same time, con- 
firms by a metaphor, the statement made in the preceding 
verse; for he shows in what respect those who fear God 
are to be accounted happy, namely, not because they enjoy 
an evanescent and empty gladness, but because they are in a 
desirable condition. ‘There is in the words an implied contrast 
between the vigour of a tree planted in a situation well watered, 
and the decayed appearance of one which, although it may 
flourish beautifully for a time, yet soon withers on account 
of the barrenness of the soil in which it is placed. With 
respect to the ungodly, as we shall afterwards see, (Ps. xxxvii. 
35,) they are sometimes like “ the cedars of Lebanon.” They 
haye such an overflowing abundance of wealth and honours, 
that nothing seems wanting to their present happiness. But 
however high they may be raised, and however far and wide 
they may spread their branches, yet having no root in 
the ground, nor even a sufficiency of moisture from which 
they may derive nourishment, the whole of their beauty by 
and by disappears, and withers away. It is, therefore, the 
blessing of God alone which preserves any in a prosperous 
condition. Those who explain the figure of the faithful 
bringing forth their fruit in season, as meaning that they 
wisely discern when a thing ought to be done so as to 
be done well, in my opinion, show more acuteness than 


6 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM I. 


judgment, by putting a meaning upon the words of the 
prophet which he never intended. He obviously meant 
nothing more than that the children of God constantly 
flourish, and are always watered with the secret influences of 
divine grace, so that whatever may befall them is conducive 
to their salvation; while, on the other hand, the ungodly 
are carried away by the sudden tempest, or consumed by the 
scorching heat. And when he says, he bringeth forth his 
Fruit in season, he expresses the full maturity of the fruit 
produced, whereas, although the ungodly may present the 
appearance of precocious fruitfulness, yet they produce no- 
thing that comes to perfection. 


4. The ungodly are not so ; but are like the chaff which the wind 
driveth away. 


The Psalmist might, with propriety, have compared the 
ungodly to a tree that speedily withers, as Jeremiah likens 
them to the heath which grows in the wilderness, (Jer. xvii. 6.) 
But not reckoning this figure sufficiently strong, he debases 
them by employing another, which represents them in a light 
still more contemptible: and the reason is, that he does not 
keep his eye on the prosperous condition of which they 
boast for a short time, but his mind is seriously pondering on 
the destruction which awaits them, and will at length over- 
take them. The meaning, therefore, is, although the un- 
godly now live prosperously, yet by and by they shall be like 
chaff; for when the Lord has brought them low, he shall 
drive them hither and thither with the blast of his wrath. 
Besides, by this form of speech, the Holy Spirit teaches us 
to contemplate with the eye of faith, what might otherwise 
seem incredible; for although the ungodly man rise high, 
and appear to great advantage, like a stately tree, we may 
rest assured that he will be even as chaff or refuse, when- 
ever God chooses to cast him down from his high estate, with 
the breath of his mouth. 


? “ And it bringeth forth all its produce to maturity.”—(Street’s New 
Literal Version of the Psalms.) 





PSALM I. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 7 


5. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor 
sinners in the congregation of the righteous. 

6. For Jehovah knoweth the way of the righteous ; but the way 
of the ungodly shall perish. 


In the fifth verse, the prophet teaches that a happy life 
depends on a good conscience, and that, therefore, it is not 
wonderful, if the ungodly suddenly fall from the happiness of 
which they fancied themselves in possession. And there is 
implied in the words a kind of concession; the prophet 
tacitly acknowledges that the ungodly please and enjoy 
themselves, and triumph during the reign of moral disorder 
in the world; just as robbers revel in the woods and caves, 
when beyond the reach of justice. But he assures us, that 
things will not always remain in their present state of con- 
fusion, and that when they shall have been reduced to 
proper order, these ungodly persons shall be entirely deprived 
of their pleasures, and feel that they were infatuated when 
they thought themselves happy. We now see how the 
Psalmist pronounces the ungodly to be miserable, because 
happiness is the inward blessing of a good conscience. He 
does not deny, that before they are driven to judgment, all 
things succeed well with them’; but he denies that they are 
happy, unless they have substantial and stedfast integrity of 
character to sustain them: for the true integrity of the 
righteous manifests itself when it comes at length to be 
tried. It is indeed true, that the Lord daily executes 
judgment, by making a distinction between the righteous 
and the wicked, but; because this is done only partially 
in this life, we must look higher if we desire to behold 
the assembly of the righteous, of which mention is here 
made. 

Even in this world the prosperity of the ungodly begins 
to pass away as often as God manifests the tokens of his 
judgment; (for then, being awakened out of sleep, they are 
constrained to acknowledge, whether they will or no, that 
they have no part with the assembly of the righteous ;) but 
because this is not accomplished always, nor with respect to 
all men, in the present state, we must patiently wait for the 


8 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM I. 


day of final revelation, in which Christ will separate the 
sheep from the goats. At the same time, we must main- 
tain it as a general truth, that the ungodly are devoted to 
misery ; for their own consciences condemn them for their 
wickedness; and, as often as they are summoned to give an 
account of their life, their sleep is broken, and they perceive 
that they were merely dreaming when they imagined them- 
selves to be happy, without looking inward to the true state 
of their hearts. 

- Moreover, as things appear to be here driven about at the 
mercy of chance, and as it is not easy for us, in the midst of 
the prevailing confusion, to acknowledge the truth of what 
the Psalmist had said, he therefore presents to our considera- 
tion the grand principle, that God is the Judge of the world. 
Granting this, it follows that it cannot but be well with the 
upright and the just, while, on the other hand, the most 
terrible destruction must impend over the ungodly. Ac- 
cording to all outward appearance, the servants of God 
may derive no advantage from their uprightness; but as 
it is the peculiar office of God to defend them and take care 
of their safety, they must be happy under his protection. 
And from this we may also conclude that, as he is the cer- 
tain avenger of wickedness, although, for a time, he may 
seem to take no notice of the ungodly, yet at length he will 
visit them with destruction. Instead, therefore, of allowing 
ourselves to be deceived with their imaginary felicity, let us, 
in circumstances of distress, have ever before our eyes the 
providence of God, to whom it belongs to settle the affairs 
of the world, and to bring order out of confusion. 


A. ee 





PSALM II. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 9 


PSALM II. 


David boasts that his kingdom, though assailed by a vast multitude of 
powerful enemies, would, notwithstanding, be perpetual, because it 
was upheld by the hand and power of God. He adds, that in spite 
of his enemies, it would be extended even to the uttermost ends of the 
earth. And, therefore, he exhorts kings and other rulers to lay 
aside their pride, and receive, with submissive minds, the yoke laid 
upon them by God; as it would be vain for them to attempt to shake 
it off. All this was typical, and contains a prophecy concerning the 
future kingdom of Christ. 


1. Why do the nations rise tumultuously, and the peoples mur- 
mur in vain? 

2. The kings of the earth have confederated, and the princes 
have assembled together, against Jehovah and against his 
Christ. 

3. Let us break off their bonds, and cast away their yoke from 
us. 


We know how many conspired against David, and endea- 
youred to prevent his coming to the throne, and from their 
hostile attempts, had he judged according to the eye of sense 
and reason, he might have been so full of apprehension, as 
forthwith to have given up all hope of ever becoming king. 
And, doubtless, he had often to struggle sorrowfully with 
very grievous temptations. But, as he had the testimony of 
an approving conscience, that he had attempted nothing 
rashly, nor acted as ambition and depraved desire impel 
many to seek changes in the government of kingdoms ; as he 
was, on the contrary, thoroughly persuaded that he had 
been made king by divine appointment, when he coveted no 
such thing, nor even thought of it ;* he encouraged himself 
by strong confidence in God against the whole world, just 
as in these words, he nobly pours contempt both on kings 


' Ne mesme y pensait.—Fr. 


10 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM II. 


and their armies. He confesses, indeed, that he had a sore 
battle to fight, inasmuch as it was no small party, but whole 
nations with their kings, who had conspired against him ; 
but he courageously boasts that their attempts were vain, 
because they waged war, not against mortal man, but against 
God himself. It is not certain from the words, whether he 
speaks only of enemies in his own kingdom, or extends 
his complaints to foreign invaders. But, since the fact was, 
that enemies rose up against him in all quarters, and that as 
soon as he had settled the disturbances among his own 
people, the neighbouring states, in their turn, became hostile 
to him, I am disposed to think that both classes of enemies 
are meant, Gentiles as well as Jews. It would be a strange 
mode of expression to speak of many nations and people 
when only one nation was meant, and to speak of many 
kings when he had in eye Saul only. Besides, it agrees 
better with the completeness of the type to suppose that 
different kinds of enemies were joined together ; for we know 
that Christ had not only to do with enemies in his own 
country, but likewise with enemies in other nations; the 
whole world having entered into a common conspiracy to 
accomplish his destruction. The Jews, indeed, first began 
to rage against Christ as they had formerly done against 
David; but afterwards the same species of madness seized 
upon other nations. The sum is, that although those who 
endeavoured to overthrow him might be strengthened by 
powerful armies, yet their tumults and counsels would prove 
vain and ineffectual. 

By attributing to the people commotion and uproar, 
and to kings and rulers the holding of assemblies, to take 
counsel, he has used very appropriate language. Yet he 
intimates that, when kings have long and much consulted 
together, and the people have poured forth their utmost 
fury, all of them united would make nothing of it. But 
we ought carefully to mark the ground of such confidence, 
which was, that he had not thrust himself forward to be 
king rashly, or of his own accord, but only followed the 
call of God. From this he concludes, that in his person God 
was assailed; and God could not but show himself the 


2 ee a a 


a  ————————— 


PSALM II. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 11 


defender of the kingdom of which he was the founder. By 
honouring himself with the title of Messias, or the Anointed, 
he declares that he reigned only by the authority and 
command of God, inasmuch as the oil brought by the hand 
of Samuel made him king who before was only a private 
person. David’s enemies did not, indeed, think they were 
making a violent attack against God, yea, they would reso- 
lutely deny their having any such intention; yet it is not 
without reason that David places God in opposition to them, 
and speaks as if they directly levelled their attacks against 
him; for by seeking to undermine the kingdom which he 
had erected, they blindly and ferociously waged war against 
Him. If all those are rebels against God who resist the 
powers ordained by him, much more does this apply to that 
sacred kingdom which was established by special privilege. 
But it is now high time to come to the substance of the 
type. That David prophesied concerning Christ, is clearly 
manifest from this, that he knew his own kingdom to be 
merely a shadow. And in order to learn to apply to Christ 
whatever David, in times past, sang concerning himself, we 
must hold this principle, which we meet with everywhere in 
all the prophets, that he, with his posterity, was made king, 
not so much for his own sake as to be a type of the Re- 
deemer. We shall often have occasion to return to this 
afterwards, but at present I would briefly inform my readers, 
that as David’s temporal kingdom was a kind of earnest 
to God’s ancient people of the eternal kingdom, which at 
length was truly established in the person of Christ, those 
things which David declares concerning himself are not 
violently, or even allegorically, applied to Christ, but were 
truly predicted concerning him. If we attentively consider 
the nature of the kingdom, we will perceive that it would be 
absurd to overlook the end or scope, and to rest in the mere 
shadow. That the kingdom of Christ is here described by 
the spirit of prophecy, is sufficiently attested to us by the 
apostles, who, seeing the ungodly conspiring against Christ, 
arm themselves in prayer with this doctrine, (Acts iv. 24.) 
But to place our faith beyond the reach of all cavils, it is 
plainly made manifest from all the prophets, that those things 


2, COMMENTARY UPON PSALM II, 


which David testified concerning his own kingdom are pro- 
perly applicable to Christ. Let this, therefore, be held as a 
settled point, that all who do not submit themselves to the 
authority of Christ make war against God. Since it seems 
good to God to rule us by the hand of his own Son, those 
who refuse to obey Christ himself deny the authority of 
God, and it is in vain for them to profess otherwise. For it 
is a true saying, “ He that honoureth not the Son, honoureth 
not the Father which hath sent him,” (John y. 22.) And it 


is of great importance to hold fast this inseparable connection, — 


that as the majesty of God hath shone forth in his only be- 
gotten Son, so the Father will not be feared and worshipped 
but in his person. 

A twofold consolation may be drawn from this passage :— 
First, as often as the world rages, in order to disturb and put 
an end to the prosperity of Christ’s kingdom, we have only 
to remember that, in all this, there is just a fulfilment of 
what was long ago predicted, and no changes that can hap- 
pen will greatly disquiet us. Yea, rather it will be highly 
profitable to us to compare those things which the apostles 
experienced with what we witness at the present time. Of 
itself the kingdom of Christ would be peaceable, and from it 
true peace issues forth to the world; but through the wicked- 


ness and malice of men, never does it rise from obscurity into - 


open view without disturbances being excited. Nor is it at 
all wonderful, or unusual, if the world begin to rage as soon 
as a throne is erected for Christ. The other consolation 
which follows is, that when the ungodly have mustered their 
forces,and when, depending on their vast numbers, their riches, 
and their means of defence, they not only pour forth their 
proud blasphemies, but furiously assault heaven itself, we may 
safely laugh them to scorn, relying on this one considera- 
tion, that he whom they are assailing is the God who is in 
heaven. When we see Christ well nigh overwhelmed with 
the number and strength of his enemies, let us remember 
that they are making war against God over whom they shall 
not prevail, and therefore their attempts, whatever they may 
be, and however increasing, will come to nought, and be 
utterly ineffectual. Let us learn, farther, that this doctrine 


PSALM II. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 13 


runs through the whole gospel; for the prayer of the 
apostles which I have just quoted, manifestly testifies that 
it ought not to be restricted to the person of Christ. 


3. Let us break, §c. This is a prosopopeeia,' in which the 
prophet introduces his enemies as speaking; and he employs 
this figure the better to express their ungodly and traitorous 
design. Not that they openly avowed themselves rebels 
against God, (for they rather covered their rebellion under 
every possible pretext, and presumptuously boasted of having 
God on their side;) but since they were fully determined, 
by all means, fair or foul, to drive David from the throne, 
whatever they professed with the mouth, the whole of their 
consultation amounted to this, how they might overthrow 
the kingdom which God himself had set up. When he de- 
scribes his government under.the metaphorical expressions of 
bonds, and a yoke, on the persons of his adversaries, he indi- 
rectly condemns their pride. For he represents them speak- 
ing scornfully of his government, as if to submit to it were 
a slavish and shameful subjection, just as we see it is with 
all the enemies of Christ who, when compelled to be subject 
to his authority, reckon it not less degrading than if the ut- 
most disgrace were put upon them. 


4. He who dwelleth in heaven will laugh at them; the Lord? 
will have them in derision. 

5. Then will he speak to them in his wrath, and vex them in his 
sore displeasure. 

6. I have anointed my King upon my holy hill of Sion. 


After David has told us of the tumult and commotions, 


1 A rhetorical figure, in which persons or things are feigned or supposed 
to ; & personification. 

2'The word in our Hebrew Bibles is Elohai; but in a considerable 
number of MSS. it is Jehovah. ‘* The Jews in latter ages had a super- 
stitious dread of pronouncing the word Jehovah, and frequently inserted 
Adonai and Elohim instead of it in their manuscripts of the Scriptures. 
But the more ancient MSS. have Jehovah frequently, where the more 
modern have Adonai and Elohim. Sixty MSS. of Dr Kennicott’s colla- 
tion and twenty-five of De Rossi’s have Jehovah here.”—Street, ii. 4. 


14 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM II, 


the counsels and pride, the preparation and resources, the 
strength and efforts of his enemies, in opposition to all these 
he places the power of God alone, which he concludes would 
be brought to bear against them, from their attempting to 
frustrate his decree. And, as a little before, by terming 
them kings of the earth, he expressed their feeble and per- 
ishable condition; so now, by the lofty title of He that 
dwelleth in heaven, he extols the power of God, as if he 
had said, that power remains intact and unimpaired, what- 
ever men may attempt against it. Let them exalt them- 
selves as they may, they shall never be able to reach to 
heaven; yea, while they think to confound heaven and 
earth together, they resemble so many grasshoppers, and 
the Lord, meanwhile, undisturbed beholds from on high their 
infatuated evolutions. And David ascribes laughter to God 
on two accounts ; first, to teach us that he does not stand in 
need of great armies to repress the rebellion of wicked men, 
as if this were an arduous and difficult matter, but, on the 
contrary, could do this as often as he pleases with the most 
perfect ease. In the second place, he would have us to un- 
derstand that when God permits the reign of his Son to be 
troubled, he does not cease from interfering because he is 
employed elsewhere, or unable to afford assistance, or because 
he is neglectful of the honour of his Son; but he purposely 
delays the inflictions of his wrath to the proper time, namely, 
until he has exposed their infatuated rage to general deri- 
sion. Let us, therefore, assure ourselves that if God does 
not immediately stretch forth his hand against the ungodly, 
it is now his time of laughter; and although, in the mean- 
time, we ought to weep, yet let us assuage the bitterness of 
our grief, yea, and wipe away our tears, with this reflection, 
that God does not connive at the wickedness of his enemies, 
as if from indolence or feebleness, but because for the time 
he would confront their insolence with quiet contempt. By 
the adverb then, he points to the fit time for exercising judg- 
ment, as if he had said, after the Lord shall have for a time 
apparently taken no notice of the malpractices of those who 
oppose the rule of his Son, he will suddenly change his course, 





PSALM I. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 15 


and show that he regards nothing with greater abhorrence 
than such presumption. 

Moreover, he ascribes speech to God, not for the purpose 
of instructing his enemies, but only to convict them of their 
madness; indeed, by the term speak, he means nothing else 
than a manifestation of God’s wrath, which the ungodly do 
not perceive until they feel it. The enemies of David 
thought it would be the easiest thing in the world for them 
to destroy one who, coming from a mean shepherd’s cot, had, 
in their view,’ presumptuously assumed the sovereign power. 
The prophecy and anointing of Samuel were, in their esti- 
mation, mere ridiculous pretences. But when God had at 
length overthrown them, and settled David on the throne, 
he, by this act, spoke not so much with his tongue as with 
his hand, to manifest himself the founder of David’s king- 
dom. The Psalmist here, then, refers to speaking by actions, 
by which the Lord, without uttering a single word, makes 
manifest his purpose. In like manner, whenever he defends 
the kingdom of his Son against the ungodly, by the tokens 
and inflictions of his wrath, although he does not speak a 
single word, yet in effect he speaks enough to make himself 
understood.? David afterwards, speaking in the name of 
- God, shows more clearly how his enemies were guilty of 
wickedly fighting against God himself in the hatred which 
they bore towards him whom God had made king. The 
sum is this: Wicked men may now conduct themselves as 
wickedly as they please, but they shall at length feel what 
it is to make war against heaven. The pronoun J is 
also emphatical, by which God signifies that he is so far 
exalted above the men of this world, that the whole mass 
of them could not possibly obscure his glory in the least 
degree. As often, then, as the power of man appears for- 
midable to us, let us remember how much it is transcended 
by the power of God. In these words there is set be- 
fore us the unchangeable and eternal purpose of God 
effectually to defend, even to the end, the kingdom of 


1 Tl avoit a leur avis.—Fr. 
2 Encore qu'il ne dise un seul mot, si est ce qu’en effect il parle assez 
pour se faire entendre.—Fr. 


16 THE BOOK OF PSALMS. PSALM II. 


his Son, of which he is the founder; and this may well 
support our faith amidst the troublous storms of the world. 
Whatever plots, therefore, men may form against it, let this 
one consideration be sufficient to satisfy us, that they can- 
not render ineffectual the anointing of God. Mention is 
here made of mount Sion in express terms, not because Dayid 
was first anointed there, but because at length, in God’s 
own time, the truth of the prophecy was manifested and 
actually established by the solemn rite of his consecration. 
And although David in these words had a regard to the 
promise of God, and recalled the attention of himself and 
others to it, yet, at the same time, he meant to signify that 
his own reign is holy and inseparably connected with the 
temple of God. But this applies more appropriately to the 
kingdom of Christ, which we know to be both spiritual and 
joined to the priesthood, and this is the principal part of the 
worship of God. 


7. Iwill declare the decree : The Lord hath said unto me, Thou 
art my Son; this day have I begotten thee. 

8. Ask of me, and I will give thee the heathen for thine inherit- 
ance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy posses- 
sion. 


7. Iwill declare, §c. David, to take away all pretence of 
ignorance from his enemies, assumes the office of a preacher, 
in order to publish the decree of God; or at least he pro- 
tests that he did not come to the throne without a sure and 
clear proof of his calling ; as if he had said, I did not, with- 
out consideration, publicly go forward to usurp the kingdom, 
but I brought with me the command of God, without which, 
I would have acted presumptuously, in advancing myself to 
such an honourable station. But this was more truly ful- 
filled in Christ, and doubtless, David, under the influence 
of the spirit of prophecy, had a special reference to him. 
For in this way all the ungodly are rendered inexcusable, 
because Christ proved himself to have been endued with 
lawful power from God, not only by his miracles, but by the 
preaching of the gospel. In fact, the very same testimony 
resounds through the whole world. The apostles first, and 


PSALM II. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 17 


after them pastors and teachers, bore testimony that Christ 
was made King by God the Father; but since they acted as 
ambassadors in Christ’s stead, He rightly and properly claims 
to himself alone whatever was done by them. Accordingly, 
Paul (Eph. ii. 17) ascribes to Christ what the ministers of 
the gospel did in his name. “ He came,” says he, “ and 
preached peace to them that were afar off, and to them that 
were nigh.” Hereby, also, the authority of the gospel is 
better established ; because, although it is published by 
others, it does not cease to be the gospel of Christ. As often, 
therefore, as we hear the gospel preached by men, we ought 
to consider that it is not so much they who speak, as Christ 
who speaks by them. And this is a singular advantage, 
that Christ lovingly allures us to himself by his own voice, 
that we may not by any means doubt of the majesty of his 
kingdom. 

On this account, we ought the more carefully to beware of 
wickedly refusing the edict which he publishes, Thou art my 
Son. David, indeed, could with propriety be called the son 
of God on account of his royal dignity, just as we know that 
princes, because they are elevated above others, are called 
both gods and the sons of God. But here God, by the sin- 
gularly high title with which he honours David, exalts him 
not only above all mortal men, but even above the angels. 
This the apostle (Heb. i. 5) wisely and diligently considers, 
when he tells us this language was never used with respect 
to any of the angels. David, individually considered, was in- 
ferior to the angels, but in so far as he represented the person 
of Christ, he is with very good reason preferred far above 
them. By the Son of God in this place we are therefore not 
to understand one son among many, but his only begotten Son, 
that he alone should have the pre-eminence both in heaven 
and on earth. When God says, I have begotten thee, it 
ought to be understood.as referring to men’s understanding 
or knowledge of it ; for David was begotten by God when the 
choice of him to be king was clearly manifested. The words 
this day, therefore, denote the time of this manifestation ; 
for as soon as it became known that he was made king by 
divine appointment, he came forth as one who had been 

VOL. I. B 


18 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM II. 


lately begotten of God, since so great an honour could not 
belong to a private person. The same explanation is to be 
given of the words as applied to Christ. He is not said to 
be begotten in any other sense than as the Father bore 
testimony to him as being his own Son. This passage, I am 
aware, has been explained by many as referring to the eter- 
nal generation of Christ ; and from the words this day, they 
have reasoned ingeniously as if they denoted an eternal 
act without any relation to time. But Paul, who is a more 
faithful and a better qualified interpreter of this prophecy, 
in Acts xiii. 33, calls our attention to the manifestation 
of the heavenly glory of Christ of which I have spoken. 
This expression, to be begotten, does not therefore imply that 
he then began to be the Son of God, but that his being 
so was then made manifest to the world. Finally, this be- 
getting ought not to be understood of the mutual love which 
exists between the Father and the Son; it only signifies 
that He who had been hidden from the beginning in the 
sacred bosom of the Father, and who afterwards had been 
obscurely shadowed forth under the law, was known to be 
the Son of God from the time when he came forth with 
authentic and evident marks of Sonship, according to what is 
said in John i. 14, “ We have seen his glory, as of the only 
begotten of the Father.” We must, at the same time, how- 
ever, bear in mind what Paul teaches, (Rom. i. 4,) that he 
was declared to be the Son of God with power when he rose 
again from the dead, and therefore what is here said has a 
principal allusion to the day of his resurrection. But to 
whatever particular time the allusion may be, the Holy Spirit 
here points out the solemn and proper time of his manifesta- 
tion, just as he does afterwards in these words, (Psalm 
exviii. 24,) “ This is the day which the Lord hath made; we 
will rejoice and be glad in it.” 


8. Ask of me. Christ, it is true, besought his Father 
(John xvii. 5) to “ glorify him with the glory which he had 
with him before the world was ;” yet the more obvious 
meaning is, that the Father will deny nothing to his Son 
which relates to the extension of his kingdom to the ut- 


PSALM Il. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 19 


termost ends of the earth. But, in this wonderful matter, 
Christ is introduced as presenting himself before the Father 
with prayers, in order to illustrate the free liberality of God 
in conferring upon men the honour of constituting his own Son 
governor over the whole world. As the eternal Word of 
God, Christ, it is true, has always had in his hands by right 
sovereign authority and majesty, and as such can receive no 
accessions thereto ; but still he is exalted in human nature, in 
which he took upon him the form of a servant. This title, 
therefore, is not applied to him only as God, but is extended 
to the whole person of the Mediator; for after Christ had 
emptied himself, there was given to him a name which is 
above every name, that before him every knee should bow, 
(Philip. ii. 9.) David, as we know, after having obtained 
signal victories, reigned over a large extent of territory, so 
that many nations became tributaries to him; but what is 
here said was not fulfilled in him. If we compare his 
kingdom with other monarchies, it was confined within very 
narrow boundaries. Unless, therefore, we suppose this pro- 
phecy concerning the vast extent of kingdom to have been 
uttered in vain and falsely, we must apply it to Christ, who 
alone has subdued the whole world to himself, and embraced 
all lands and nations under his dominion. Accordingly, here, 
as in many other places, the calling of the Gentiles is fore- 
told, to prevent all from imagining that the Redeemer who 
was to be sent of God was king of one nation only. And 
if we now see his kingdom divided, diminished, and broken 
down, this proceeds from the wickedness of men, which ren- 
ders them-unworthy of being under a reign so happy and so 
desirable. But although the ingratitude of men hinders the 
kingdom of Christ from prospering, it does not render this 
prediction of none effect, inasmuch as Christ collects the dis- 
persed remnants of his people from all quarters, and in the 
midst of this wretched desolation, keeps them joined together 
by the sacred bond of faith, so that not one corner only, but 
the whole world, is subjected to his authority. Besides, how- 
ever insolently the ungodly may act, and however they may 
reject his sovereignty, they cannot, by their rebellion, de- 


20 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM II. 


stroy his authority and power. To this subject also belongs 
what immediately follows :— 


9. Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron, and dash them in 
pieces like a potter’s vessel. 


This is expressly stated, to teach us that Christ is furnished 
with power by which to reign even over those who are 
averse to his authority, and refuse to obey him. The lan- 
guage of David implies that all will not voluntarily receive 
his yoke, but that many will be stiff-necked and rebellious, 
whom notwithstanding he shall subdue by force, and compel 
to submit to him. It is true, the beauty and glory of the 
kingdom of which David speaks are more illustriously dis- 
played when a willing people run to Christ in the day of his 
power, to show themselves his obedient subjects; but as the 
greater part of men rise up against him with a violence which 
spurns all restraint, it was necessary to add the truth, that 
this king would prove himself superior to all such opposition. 
Of this unconquerable power in war God exhibited a speci- 
men, primarily in the person of David, who, as we know, 
vanquished and overthrew many enemies by force of arms. 
But the prediction is more fully verified in Christ, who, 
neither by sword nor spear, but by the breath of his mouth, 
smites the ungodly even to their utter destruction. 

It may, however, seem wonderful that, while the prophets 
in other parts of Scripture celebrate the meekness, the 
mercy, and the gentleness of our Lord, he is here described 
as so rigorous, austere, and full of terror. But this severe 
and dreadful sovereignty is set before us for no other pur- 
pose than to strike alarm into his enemies; and it is not at 
all inconsistent with the kindness with which Christ tenderly 
and sweetly cherishes his own people. He who shows him- 
self a loving shepherd to his gentle sheep, must treat the wild 
beasts with a degree of severity, either to convert them from 
their cruelty, or effectually to restrain it. Accordingly, in 
Psalm ex. 5, after a commendatign is pronounced upon the 
obedience of the godly, Christ is immediately armed with 


PSALM TI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 21 


power to destroy, in the day of his wrath, kings and their 
armies who are hostile to him. And certainly both these 
characters are with propriety ascribed to him: for he was sent 
by the Father to cheer the poor and the wretched with the 
tidings of salvation, to set the prisoners free, to heal the sick, 
to bring the sorrowful and afflicted out of the darkness of 
death into the light of life, (Isaiah Ixi. 1;) and as, on the 
other hand, many, by their ingratitude, provoke his wrath 
against them, he assumes, as it were, a new character, to beat 
down their obduracy. It may be asked, what is that iron 
sceptre which the Father hath put into the hand of Christ, 
wherewith to break in pieces his enemies? I answer, The 
breath of his mouth supplies to him the place of all other 
weapons, as I have just now shown from Isaiah. Although, 
therefore, Christ move not a finger, yet by his speaking he 
thunders awfully enough against his enemies, and destroys 
them by the rod of his mouth alone. They may fret and 
kick, and with the rage of a madman resist him never so 
much, but they shall at length be compelled to feel that he 
whom they refuse to honour as their king is their judge. In 
short, they are broken in pieces by various methods, till they 
become his footstool. In what respect the doctrine of the gos- 
pel is an iron rod, may be gathered from Paul’s Epistle to the 
Corinthians, (2 Ep. x. 4,) where he teaches that the ministers 
of Christ are furnished with spiritual weapons to cast down 
every high thing which exalteth itself against Christ, &c. 
I allow that even the faithful themselves may be offered in 
sacrifice to God, that he may quicken them by his grace, for 
it is meet we should be humbled in the dust, before Christ 
stretch forth his hand to save us. But Christ trains his dis- 
ciples to repentance in such a way as not to appear terrible 
to them; on the contrary, by showing them his shepherd’s 
rod, he quickly turns their sorrow into joy ; and so far is he 
from using his iron rod to break them in pieces, that he 
rather protects them under the healing shadow of his hand, 
and upholds them by his power. When David speaks, there- 
fore, of breaking and bruising, this applies only to the rebel- 
lious and unbelieving who submit to Christ, not because 

they have been subdued by repentance, but because they 


22 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM II. 


are overwhelmed with despair. Christ does not, indeed, 
literally speak to all men; but as he denounces in his 
word whatever judgments he executes upon them, he may 
be truly said to slay the ungodly man with the breath 
of his mouth, (2 Thess. ii. 8.) The Psalmist exposes to 
shame their foolish pride by a beautiful similitude ; teaching 
us, that although their obstinacy is harder than the stones, 
they are yet more fragile than earthen vessels. Since, how- 
ever, we do not see the enemies of the Redeemer imme- 
diately broken in pieces, but, on the contrary, the Church 
herself appears rather to be like the frail earthen vessel under 
their iron hammers, the godly need to be admonished to re- 
gard the judgments which Christ daily executes as presages 
of the terrible ruin which remains for all the ungodly, and to 
wait patiently for the last day, when he will utterly consume 
them by the flaming fire in which he will come. In the 


meantime, let us rest satisfied that he “rules in the midst of 
his enemies.” 


10. And now, O ye kings, be wise ; and ye judges of the earth be 
instructed, 


1l. Serve Jehovah with fear, and rejoice with trembling. 


David having, as a preacher of the judgments of God, set 
forth the vengeance which God would take upon his enemies, 
proceeds now, in the character of a prophet and teacher, to 
exhort the unbelieving to repentance, that they may not, 
when it is too late, be compelled to acknowledge, from dire 
experience, that the divine threatenings are neither idle nor 
ineffectual. And he addresses by name kings and rulers, 
who are not very easily brought to a submissive state of 
mind ; and who are, besides, prevented from learning what is 
right by the foolish conceit of their own wisdom with which 
they are puffed up. And if David spare not even kings 
themselves, who seem unrestrained by laws, and exempted 
from ordinary rules, much more does his exhortation apply 
to the common class of men, in order that all, from the 
highest to the lowest, may humble themselves before God. 
By the adverb now, he signifies the necessity of their speedy 


PSALM Il. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 23 


repentance, since they will not always be favoured with the 
like opportunity. Meanwhile, he tacitly gives them to under- 
stand, that it was for their advantage that he warned them, 
as there was yet room for repentance, provided they made 
haste. When he enjoins them ¢éo be wise, he indirectly con- 
demns their false confidence in their own wisdom, as if he 
had said, The beginning of true wisdom is when a man lays 
aside his pride, and submits himself to the authority of 
Christ. Accordingly, however good an opinion the princes 
of the world may have of their own shrewdness, we may be 
sure they are arrant fools till they become humble scholars 
at the feet of Christ. Moreover, he declares the manner 
in which they were to be wise, by commanding them to 
serve the Lord with fear. By trusting to their elevated sta- 
tion, they flatter themselves that they are loosed from the 
laws which bind the rest of mankind; and the pride of 
this so greatly blinds them as to make them think it be- 
neath them to submit even to God. The Psalmist, there- 
fore, tells them, that until they have learned to fear him, 
they are destitute of all right understanding. And cer- 
tainly, since they are so much hardened by security as to 
withdraw their obedience from God, strong measures must 
at the first be employed to bring them to fear him, and thus 
to recover them from their rebelliousness. To prevent them 
from supposing that the service to which he calls them is 
grievous, he teaches them by the word rejoice how pleasant 
and desirable it is, since it furnishes matter of true glad- 
ness. But lest they should, according to their usual way, 
wax wanton, and, intoxicated with vain pleasures, imagine 
themselves happy while they are enemies to God, he exhorts 
them farther by the words with fear to an humble and 
dutiful submission. There is a great difference between 
the pleasant and cheerful state of a peaceful conscience, 
which the faithful enjoy in having the favour of God, 
whom they fear, and the unbridled insolence to which 
the wicked are carried, by contempt and forgetfulness of 
God. The language of the prophet, therefore, implies, that 
so long as the proud profligately rejoice in the gratification 
of the lusts of the flesh, they sport with their own destruc- 


24 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM II. 


tion, while, on the contrary, the only true and salutary joy 
is that which arises from resting in the fear and reverence of 
God. 


12. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, 
when’ his wrath is kindled in a moment. 0 blessed are all 
who put their trust in him. 


David expresses yet more distinctly what kind of fear and 
service God requires. Since it is the will of God to reign 
by the hand of his Son, and since he has engrayen on his 
person the marks and insignia of his own glory, the proper 
proof of our obedience and piety towards him is reverently 
to embrace his Son, whom he has appointed king over us, 
according to the declaration, “ He that honoureth not the 
Son, honoureth not the Father who hath sent him,” (John 
y. 23.) The term hiss refers to the solemn token or sign 
of honour which subjects were wont to yield to their sove- 
reigns. The sum is, that God is defrauded of his honour 
if he is not served in Christ. The Hebrew word 3, 
Bar, signifies both a son and an elect person; but in what- 
ever way you take it, the meaning will remain the same. 
Christ was truly chosen of the Father, who has given him 
all power, that he alone should stand pre-eminent above 
both men and angels. On which account also he is said 
to be “sealed” by God, (John vi. 27,) because a peculiar 
dignity was conferred upon him, which removes him to a 
distance from all creatures. Some interpreters expound it, 
hiss or embrace what is pure,* which is a strange and rather 


' Ou, car son; or, for his.—Fr. marg. 

2 The word 3, Bar, which here signifies son, is also sometimes used to 
denote pure, as in Job xi. 4, Ps. xxiv. 4, and Ixxiii. 1. In the former 
sense it is a Chaldee word, in the latter it is a Hebrew one. This render- 
ing, of which Calvin disapproves, is substantially that of the Septuagint, 
which reads deagcaobs wasdesces, literally, lay hold upon instruction. But 
as the Arabic version of the Psalms, which generally follows the Sep- 
tuagint, has used here (and in many other places, where the Septuagint 
has rasdeas) a word which signifies not only instruction, but good 
morals, virtue, Street thinks that the authors of the Septuagint, by 
waideseg, meant good morals, or virtue in general, and that they under- 
stood »z, Bar, as a general expression for the same thing. The Chaldee, 
Vulgate, and A’thiopic versions, also render ">, Bar, by a word meaning doc- 





PSALM II. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 25 


forced interpretation. For my part, I willingly retain the 
name of son, which answers well to a former sentence, where 
it was said, “ Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten 
thee.” | 
What follows immediately after is a warning to those who 
despise Christ, that their pride shall not go unpunished; as 
if he had said, As Christ is not despised without indignity 
being done to the Father, who hath adorned him with his 
own glory, so the Father himself will not allow such an 
invasion of his sacred rights to pass unpunished. And to 
teach them to beware of vainly deceiving themselves with 
the hope of a lengthened delay, and from their present ease 
indulging themselves in vain pleasures, they are plainly told 
that his wrath will be kindled x a moment. For we see, when 
God for a time connives at the wicked, and bears with them, 
how they abuse this forbearance, by growing more presump- 
tuous, because they do not think of his judgments otherwise, 
than according to sight and feeling. Some interpreters, I know, 
explain the Hebrew word 4995, Camoat, which we have ren- 
dered, in a moment, in a different way, namely, that as soon as 
God’s wrath is kindled in even a small degree, it will be all 
over with the reprobate. But it is more suitable to apply it to 
time, and to view it as a warning to the proud not to harden 
themselves in their stupidity and indifference, nor flatter them- 
selves from the patience of God, with the hope of escaping 
unpunished. Moreover, although this word appears to be put 
for the purpose of giving a reason of what goes before,' 
namely; why those who refuse to kiss the Son shall perish, and 
although the Hebrew word ‘5, Ki, signifies more frequently 
for than when, yet lam unwilling to depart from the com- 
monly received translation, and haye thought it proper 
trine or discipline. ‘This is a remarkable case,” says Dr Adam Clarke, 
“ and especially that in so pure a piece of Hebrew as this poem is, a 
Chaldee word should have been found, 3, Bar, instead of p, Ben, which 
adds nothing to the strength of the expression, or the elegance of the 
. 1 know it is{supposed that "3, Bar, is also pure Hebrew as well 
as Chaldee; but, as it is taken in the former language in the sense of 
purifying, the versions probably understood it so here. Embrace that which 
is , namely, the doctrine of God.” 
Pour rendre raison du precedent ascavoir pour quoy c'est qu’'ils 
periront.—Fr. 


26 - COMMENTARY UPON PSALM II. 


to render the original word by the adverb when, which — 
denotes both the reason and time of what is predicated. 
Some explain the phrase, to perish from the way, as mean- 
ing a perverse way, or wicked manner of living. Others 
resolve it thus, lest your way perish, according to that 
saying of the first psalm, the way of the ungodly shall 
perish. But Iam rather inclined to attach to the words a 
different meaning, and to view them as a denunciation against 
the ungodly, by which they are warned that the wrath of 
God will cut them off when they think themselves to be only 
in the middle of their race. We know how the despisers of 
God are accustomed to flatter themselves in prosperity, and 
run to great excess in riot. The prophet, therefore, with great 
propriety, threatens that when they shall say, Peace and safe- 
ty, reckoning themselves at a great distance from their end, 
they shall be cut off by a sudden destruction, (1 Thess. vy. 3.) 

The concluding sentence of the psalm qualifies what was 
formerly said concerning the severity of Christ; for his iron 
rod and the fiery wrath of God would strike terror into all 
men without distinction, unless this comfort had been added. 
Having, therefore, discoursed concerning the terrible judg- 
ment which hangs over the unbelieving, he now encourages 
God’s faithful and devout servants to entertain good hope, 
by setting forth the sweetness of his grace. Paul likewise 
observes the same order, (2 Cor. x. 6;) for having declared 
that vengeance was in readiness against the disobedient, he 
immediately adds, addressing himself to believers, “ When 
your obedience is fulfilled.” Now, we understand the meaning 
of the Psalmist. As believers might have applied to them- 
selves the severity of which he makes mention, he opens to 
them a sanctuary of hope, whither they may flee, in order not 
to be overwhelmed by the terror of God’s wrath ;' just as Joel 
(chap. ii. 32) also, after having summoned the ungodly to 
the awful judgment-seat of God, which of itself is terrible to 
men,” immediately subjoins the comfort, “ Whosoever shall 
call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.” For it appears 
to me that this exclamation, Blessed are all they that put their 


! Pour n’estre point accablez de la frayeur d’ire de Dieu.—F'r. 
2 Qui de soy est espouvantable aux hommes.—Fr. 


. 


PSALM II. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 27 


trust in him, should be read as a distinct sentence by itself. 
The pronoun him may be referred as well to God as to Christ, 


but, in my judgment, it agrees better with the whole scope 
of the psalm to understand it of Christ, whom the Psalmist 
before enjoined kings and judges of the earth to kiss. 


PSALM III. 


David, although driven from his kingdom, and pressed down with utter 
despair of relief from every earthly quarter, ceases not to call upon 
God, and supports himself from his promise against the greatest ter- 
rors, against the mockery and cruel assaults of his enemies; and, 
finally, against death itself, which then forced itself upon his consi- 
deration. In the end of the psalm, he congratulates himself and the 
whole Church on the happy issue of all. 


g A Psalm of David, when he fled from Absalom his Son.? 


How bitter David’s sorrow was under the ‘conspiracy of his own 
household against him, which arose from the treachery of his own son, 
it is easy for every one of us to conjecture from the feelings of nature. 
And when, in addition to this, he knew that this disaster was brought 
upon him by God for his own fault in having defiled another man’s wife, 
and for shedding innocent blood, he might have sunk into despair, 
and been overwhelmed with anguish, if he had not been encouraged by 
the promise of God, and thus hoped for life even in death. From his 
making no allusion here to his sins, we are led to infer, that only one 
part of his prayers is comprised in this psalm ; for as God punished him 
expressly on account of his adultery, and his wicked treachery towards 
Uriah, there can be no doubt that he was at first distressed with grievous 
and dreadful torments of mind. But after he had humbled himself be- 
fore God, he-took courage ; and being well assured of having obtained 


1 The word “ex, ashre, which occurs in the beginning of the psalm, is 
also used here; and therefore the words may be rendered, O the blessed- 
nesses of all those who put their trust in him. 

2 The inscription or title of the psalm refers it to the conspiracy of 
Absalom, and that the refers to this is evident from the whole tenor 
of it. ‘“ But these titles are destitute of authority, as the careful reader 
of The Psalms will soon remark ; they are to be regarded merely as mar- 

inal glosses of the Jews, but a guides to the interpretation of Scrip- 


. ture.”—F'ry’s Translation and ition of the Psalms. 


28 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM III. 


forgiveness, he was fully persuaded that God was on his side, and knew 
that he would always preside over his kingdom, and show himself its 
protector.! But he, nevertheless, complained of his son, and of the whole 
faction involved in the conspiracy, because he knew that they wickedly 
rose up for the purpose of frustrating the decree of God. In like man- 
ner, if at any time God makes use of wicked and mischievous men, as 
scourges to chastise us, it becomes us first diligently to consider the 
cause, namely, that we suffer nothing which we have not deserved, in 
order that this reflection may lead us to repentance. But if our enemies, 
in persecuting us, rather? fight against God than against us, let the con- 
sideration of their doing so be immediately followed by the confident 
persuasion of our safety under the protection of him, whose grace, which 
he hath promised to us, they despise and trample under foot. 


1. O Lord, how are my oppressors multiplied! many rise up 
against me. 

2. Many say to my soul, There is no help for him in God. 
Selah. 


SacreD history teaches that David was not only de- 
throned, but forsaken by almost all men; so that he had 
well nigh as many enemies as he had subjects. It is 
true there accompanied him in his flight a few faithful 
friends; but he escaped in safety, not so much by their aid 
and protection as by the hiding-places of the wilderness. 
It is therefore not wonderful though he was affrighted by 
the great numbers who were opposed to him, for nothing 
could have taken place more unlooked for, on his part, 
than so sudden a rebellion. It was a mark of uncommon 
faith, when smitten with so great consternation, to venture 
freely to make his complaint to God, and, as it were, to pour 
out his soul into his bosom.’ And certainly the only remedy 
for allaying our fears is this, to cast upon him all the cares 
which trouble us; as, on the other hand, those who have the 
conviction that they are not the objects of his regard, must 
be prostrated and overwhelmed by the calamities which 
befall them. 


1 Et s’en monstreroit le protecteur.—Fr. 

? En nous poursuyvant.—Fr. 

3 Tl a osé venir familierement faire sa complainte a Dieu et comme se 
discharger & lui.—F’r. 


PSALM III. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 29 


In the third verse he expresses more distinctly, and more 
emphatically, the pride of his enemies in deriding him as a 
castaway, and as a person whose circumstances were past 
hope. And he means, that their boldness increased here- 
upon, because they were confident he had been rejected by 
God. Perhaps, in these words also, their ungodliness is in- 
directly referred to, inasmuch as they made no account of 
the help of God in preserving the king whom he had chosen. 
And this second view is the more probable, for Absalom did 
not flatter himself with the hope of the favour of God, but, 
entirely disregarding him, hoped for victory from his own 
power. Dayid, therefore, expressly introduces both him and 
the rest as speaking after this manner, to show that it was 
by a monstrous and outrageous contempt of God that they 
were driven to such fury against him, as if they made no ac- 
count whatever of the fact of his having been often wonder- 
fully delivered from the greatest dangers. The ungodly, 
when they rise up to destroy us, may not openly break forth 
into such daring presumption as to maintain it to be impos- 
sible for us to derive any advantage from the favour of God; 
yet, as they either ascribe every thing to fortune, or hold 
the opinion that a man’s success will be in proportion to his 
. strength, and therefore fearlessly rush forward to gain their 
object, by all means, whether right or wrong, as if it would 
be equally the same, whether God is angry with or favour- 
able towards them, it is evident that they set no value what- 
ever upon the favour of God, and mock at the faithful as if 
it would avail them nothing to be under the care and pro- 
tection of God. 

The translation of some, Many say oF my soul, does not 
give the true meaning of this passage. The letter 5 is 
indeed sometimes used as meaning of in Hebrew, but David 
here intended to express something more, namely, that 
his heart was in a manner pierced with the mockery of his 
enemies. The word soul, therefore, in my opinion, here 
signifies the seat of the affections. And it has a correspond- 
ing meaning in a passage which we shall meet with in an- 
other Psalm, (xxxv. 3,) “ Say to my soul, I am thy salva- 
tion.” David thus teaches us by his own example, that 


30 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM III. 


although the whole world, with one voice, should attempt to 
drive us to despair, instead of listening to it, we ought 
rather to give ear to God alone, and always cherish within 
us the hope of the salvation which he hath promised ; and as 
the ungodly use their endeavours to destroy our souls, we 
ought to defend them by our prayers. With respect to the 
word Selah, interpreters are not agreed. Some maintain 
it is a mark of affirmation, and has the same signification as 
truly or amen. Others understand it as meaning for ever. 
But as b$p, Selal, from which it is derived, signifies to lift up, 
we incline to the opinion of those who think it denotes the 
lifting up of the voice in harmony in the exercise of singing. 
At the same time, it must be observed, that the music was 
adapted to the sentiment, and so the harmony was in unison 
with the character or subject-matter of the song; just as 
David here, after having complained of his enemies for 
shamefully laughing to scorn his hope, as if the protection of 
God would be of no avail to him, fixes the attention on this 
blasphemy, which severely wounded his heart, by the use of 
the word Selah ; and as a little after, when he has added a 
new ground of confidence with regard to the safety of his 
person, he repeats the same word. 


3. And thou, Jehovah, art a shield for me, my glory, and he that 
exalteth my head. 

4, I have cried to the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out 
of his holy hill. Selah. 


The copulative and should be resolved into the disjunctive 
particle but, because David employs language full of confi- 
dence, in opposition to the hardihood and profane scoffings 
of his enemies,' and testifies that whatever they may say, he 
would nevertheless rely upon the word of God. It besides 
appears that he had previously entertained an assured hope 
of deliverance, from the circumstance of his here making no 
mention of his present calamity as a chastisement inflicted 
upon him by the hand of God; but rather depending upon 


' L’audace de ses ennemis et risee accompagnee de sacrilege.—Fr. 





PSALM III. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 81 


the divine aid, he courageously encounters his enemies, who 
were carrying on an ungodly and wicked war against him, 
seeing they intended to depose a true and lawful king from 
his throne. In short, having acknowledged his sin before, 
he now takes into consideration only the merits of the pre- 
sent cause. And thus it becomes the servants of God to 
act when molested by the wicked. Having mourned over 
their own sins, and humbly betaken themselves to the mercy 
of God, they ought to keep their eyes fixed on the obvious 
and immediate cause of their afflictions, that they may enter- 
tain no doubt of the help of God when undeservedly sub- 
jected to evil treatment. Especially when, by their being 
evil entreated, the truth of God is opposed, they ought to be 
greatly encouraged, and glory in the assurance that God 
without doubt will maintain the truth of his own promises 
against such perfidious and abandoned characters. Had it 
been otherwise with David, he might seem to have claimed 
these things to himself groundlessly, seeing he had deprived 
himself of the approbation and help of God by offending 
him.’ But being persuaded that he was not utterly cut off 
from the favour of God, and that God’s choice of him to be 
king remained unchanged, he encourages himself to hope for 
a fayourable issue to his present trials. And, in the first 
place, by comparing God to a shield, he means that he was 
defended by his power. Hence also he concludes, that God 
was his glory, because he would be the maintainer and de- 
fender of the royal dignity which he had been pleased to 
confer upon him. And, on this account, he became so bold 
that he declares he would walk with unabashed brow.? 


4. With my voice have I cried unto the Lord. He here informs 
us that he had never been so broken by adversity, or cast down 
by impious scornings,’ as to be prevented from addressing his 


1 En loffensant.—Fr. 

2 De la e Vasseurance dont il fait mention puis apres qu'il mar- 
chera hardiment la teste levée.—F’r. From this proceeded the confidence 
of which he makes mention a little after, that he will boldly walk with 
unabashed brow. 

* Par les mocqueries mal-heureuses des meschans.—Fr. By the pitiful 
scornings of the wicked. 


32 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM III. 


prayers to God. And it was an infallible proof of his faith 
to exercise it by praying even in the midst of his distresses. 
Nothing is more unbecoming than sullenly to gnaw the bit 
with which we are bridled, and to withhold our groaning 
from God,! if, indeed, we have any faith in his promise. Nor 
is there a redundancy of expression in these words, J have 
cried with my voice. David distinctly mentions his voice, the 
better to express that how much soever the ungodly might 
rage against him, he was by no means struck dumb, but pro- 
nounced, in a loud and distinct voice, the name of his God; 
and to do this was a difficult matter under so grievous and 
severe a temptation. He also particularly mentions his 
voice, in order to show that he opposes the voice of prayer 
to the tumultuous outcries of those who either blame fortune 
or curse God, or give way to excessive complainings; those, 
in short, who with passionate confusion pour forth their immo- 
derate sorrow. But David’s meaning appears to me to be 
principally this, that amidst the blasphemies of his enemies, 
by which they endeavoured to overwhelm his faith, he was 
not put to silence, but rather lifted up his voice to God, 
whom the ungodly imagined to have become his enemy. He 
adds that he cried not in vain, to encourage all the godly to 
the like constancy. As to the expression, from the hill of his 
holiness, or, which signifies the same thing, from his holy hill, 
it is improperly explained of heaven, as has been done by 
some. Heaven, I indeed confess, is often called, in other 
places, God’s holy palace; but here David has doubtless a 
reference to the ark of the covenant, which at that 
time stood on Mount Sion. And he expressly affirms that 
he was heard from thence, though he had been compelled to 
flee into the wilderness. The Sacred History relates, (2 Sam. 
xv. 24,) that when Abiathar the priest commanded the ark 
to be carried by the Levites, David would not suffer it. 
And in this the wonderful faith of the holy man appears con- 
spicuous. He knew that the Lord had chosen Sion to be the 
dwelling place of the ark, but he was, notwithstanding, willing 
rather to be torn from that sacred symbol of the divine pre- 


! D’esloigner de Dieu nos gemissemens, et les luy cacher.—Fr. To with- 
hold our groanings from God, and to conceal them from him, 


PSALM III. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 33 


sence, (which was painful to him as if his own bowels had 
been torn from him,) than make any innovation not sanction- 
ed by the will of heaven. Now, he boasts, that although he 
was deprived of the sight of the ark, and notwithstanding 
the distance to which he was removed from it, God was near 
him to listen to his prayers. By these words he intimates 
that he kept a due medium, inasmuch as he neither despised 
the visible sign, which the Lord had appointed on account of 
the rudeness of the times, nor by attaching a superstitious 
importance to a particular place, entertained carnal concep- 
tions of the glory of God. Thus, he did not idly scatter 
words which would vanish into air, as unbelievers are wont 
to do, who pray also, but are in doubt to what place they 
ought to direct their speech. David turned himself directly 
towards the tabernacle, whence God had promised to be 
merciful to his servants. Hence the confidence with which 
he prayed; and this confidence was not without success. 
In our day, since there is fulfilled in Christ what was for- 
merly shadowed forth by the figures of the law, a much 
easier way of approach to God is opened up for us, provided 
we do not knowingly and willingly wander from the way. 


5. Ilaid me down and slept, Iawaked ; for the Lord sustained me. 
6. I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, who have set 
their camps against me on all sides. 


According to the usage of the Hebrews, these words, which 
are in the past tense, I laid me down and slept, are taken 
sometimes for the future, J will lie down and sleep If we 
retain the reading of the verb in the past tense, David 
expresses a wonderful and almost incredible stedfastness of 
mind in that he slept so soundly in the midst of many deaths, 
as if he had been beyond the reach of all danger. He had 
doubtless been tossed amidst the merciless waves of anxiety, 
but it is certain their violence had been allayed by means of 


' Selon l’usage des Hebrieux, ces mots qui sont en un temps passé, Je 
suis couché et endormi se prenent ancunesfois pour un temps d-venir, Je 
me coucheray et dormiray.—Fr. 


VOL. L. Cc 


34 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM III. 


faith, so that however much he was disquieted, he reposed in 
God. Thus the godly never fail in ultimately proving vie- 
torious over all their fears, whereas the ungodly, who do not 
rely upon God, are overwhelmed with despair, even when they 
meet with the smallest perils. Some think there is here a 
change of tenses; and, therefore, translate the verbs into the 
future tense, I will lay me down and will sleep, and will awake, 
because immediately after a verb of the future is subjoined, 
The Lord shall uphold me. But as he expresses, by these 
last words, a continuous act, I thought it unnecessary to 
change the tenses in the three first verbs. Still we ought to 
know, that this confidence of safety is not to be referred 
peculiarly to the time of his affliction, or, at least, is not to 
be limited to it: for, in my judgment, David rather declares 
how much good he had obtained by means of faith and 
prayer; namely, the peaceful and undisturbed state of a well 
regulated mind. This he expresses metaphorically, when he 
says, that he did the ordinary actions of life without being 
disturbed by fear. “I have not lain,” says he, “waking and 
restless on my bed; but I have slept soundly, whereas 
such manner of sleeping does not generally happen to those 
who are full of thought and fear.” But let us particularly 
notice that David came to have this confidence of safety from 
the protection of God, and not from stupidity of mind. Even 
the wicked are kept fast asleep through an intoxication of 
mind, while they dream of having made a covenant with 
death. It was otherwise with David, who found rest on no 
other ground but because he was upheld by the power of 
God, and defended: by his help. In the next verse, he 
enlarges upon the incalculable efficacy of this confidence, of 
which all the godly have some understanding, from their 
experience of the divine protection. As the power of God is 
infinite, so they conclude that it shall be invincible against 
all the assaults, outrages, preparations, and forces of the 
whole world. And, indeed, unless we ascribe this honour to 
God, our courage shall be always failing us. Let us, there- 
fore, learn, when in dangers, not to measure the assistance 
of God after the manner of man, but to despise whatever 
terrors may stand in our way, inasmuch as all the attempts 


PSALM III. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 35 


which men may make against God, are of little or no 
account. 


7. Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God ; for thou hast smitten 
all mine enemies upon the cheek-bone ; thou hast broken 
the teeth of the ungodly. 

8. Salvation belongeth unto the Lord ; thy blessing is upon thy 
people. Selah. 


7. Arise, O Lord. As in the former verses David boasted 
of his quiet state, it would now appear he desires of the 
Lord to be preserved in safety during the whole of his life ; 
as if he had said, Lord, since thou hast overthrown my 
enemies, grant that this thy goodness may follow me, and 
be continued even to the end of my course. But because it 
is no uncommon thing for David, in the Psalms, to mingle 
together various affections, it seems more probable, that, 
after having made mention of his confidence in God, he 
returns again to make the same prayers as at the beginning.! 
He therefore asks to be preserved, because he was in eminent 
peril. What follows concerning the smiting of his enemies, 
may be explained in two ways: either that im praying he 
calls to his remembrance his former victories, or that having 
experienced the assistance of God, and obtained the answer 
of his prayers, he now follows it up by thanksgiving : and this 
last meaning I am much inclined to adopt. In the first place, 
then, he declares that he fled to God for help in dangers, 
and humbly prayed for deliverance; and after salvation had 
been granted him, he gives thanks, by which he testifies, that 
he acknowledged God to be the author of the deliverance 
which he had obtained.’ 


8. Salvation belongeth unto the Lord. Because 5 is some- 


' A faire les mesmes prieres qu’au commencement.—Fr. 

(raed gemerrengre mt nde paige Pang ig ode 
sauve' uy en rend graces; tesmo t il tient de u sa 
coca Got dn nate Fei then bavi obtained this, 
that is to say, having preserved in safety, he gives to God; 
testifying by this, that aia cuer tune Reaseaente areas 
as coming trom him. 


36 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IV. 


times used by the Hebrews for }{9, Min, some not improperly 
translate this clause, Salvation is of the Lord. I, however, 
consider the natural and obvious meaning to be simply this, 
that salvation or deliverance is only in the hands of God. By 
these words, David not only claims the office and praise of sav- 
ing for God alone, tacitly opposing his power to all human 
succour; but also declares, that although a thousand deaths 
hang over his people, yet this cannot render God unable to 
save them, or prevent him from speedily sending forth with- 
out any effort, the deliverance which he is always able to 
impart. In {the end of the psalm, David affirms that this 
was vouchsafed, not so much to him as an individual, as to 
the whole people, that the universal Church, whose welfare 
depended on the safety and prosperity of his kingdom, 
might be preserved from destruction. David, therefore, ac- 
knowledges the dispersion of this wicked conspiracy to have 
been owing to the care which God had about the safety of 
his Church. From this passage we learn, that the Church 
shall always be delivered from the calamities which befall 
her, because God who is able to save her, will never with- 
draw his grace and blessing from her. 


PSALM IV. 


After David in the beginning of the psalm has prayed to God to help 
him, he immediately turns his discourse to his enemies, and depending 
on the promise of God, triumphs over them as a conqueror. He, 
therefore, teaches us by his example, that as often as we are weighed 
down by adversity, or involved in very great distress, we ought to 
meditate upon the promises of God, in which the hope of salvation is 
held forth to us, so that defending ourselves by this shield, we may 
break through all the temptations which assail us. 


§ To the chief musician on Neginoth. A psalm of David. 


It is uncertain at what time this psalm was composed. But from the 
tenor of it, it is conjectured, with probability, that David was then 


PSALM IV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 37 


a fugitive and an exile. I therefore refer it to the time when he was 
persecuted by Saul. If, however, any person is disposed rather to 
understand it as referring to the time when he was compelled by the 
conspiracy of Absalom to secure his safety by flight, I will not greatly 
contend about the matter. But as, a little after, he uses an expres- 
sion, namely, ‘“* How long?” (verse 3,)' which indicates that he had 
a lengthened struggle, the opinion which I have already brought for- 
ward is the more probable. For we know with what varied trials he 
was harassed, before he obtained complete deliverance, from the time 
when Saul began to be his enemy. Concerning the words which are 
contained in this verse, I shall only make one or two brief observations. 
Some translate the word nx3:b, Lamnetsah, for ever; and they say that it 
was the commencement of a common song, to the tune of which this psalm 
was composed :? but this I reject as a forced translation. Others, with 
more truth, are of opinion, that ny», Menetsah, signifies one who 
excels and surpasses all others. But because expositors are not agreed 
as to the particular kind of excellence and dignity here spoken of, let 
it suffice, that by this word is denoted the chief master or president of 
the band.* I do not approve of rendering the word, conqueror; for 
although it answers to the subject-matter of the present psalm, yet it 
does not at all suit other places where we shall find the same Hebrew 
word used. With respect to the second word, Neginoth, I think it comes 
from the verb j:, Nagan, which signifies to strike or sound; and, 
therefore, I doubt not, but it was an instrument of music. Whence it 
follows, that this psalm was designed to be sung, not only with the 
voice, but also with musical instruments, which were presided over, and 
regulated by the chief musician of whom we have just now spoken. 


1, Answer me when I cry, O God of my righteousness ; thou 
hast enlarged me in distress ; have pity upon me, and hear 
my prayer. 


In these words there is shown the faith of David, who, 
although brought to the uttermost distress, and indeed almost — 
consumed by a long series of calamities, did not sink under 
his sorrow; nor was he so broken in heart as to be prevented 


from betaking himself to God his deliverer. By his praying, 


! Ascavoir, Jusques & quand, a vers. 3.—Fr. 

2 Et ils disent que c’estoit le commencement d’une chanson commune 
au chant de tiecle ce pseaume a este compose.—Fr, 

3 Le principal chantre, ou maitre de la see = avoit charge de 
mettre pseaumes en chants et accords.—Fr. e chief singer or 
leader of the music who had the charge of setting the psalms to tunes 
and harmonies. 


38 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IV. 


he testified, that when utterly deprived of all earthly succour, 
there yet remained for him hope in God. Moreover, he calls 
him the God of his righteousness, which is the same thing as 
if he had called him the vindicator of his right; and he 
appeals to God, because all men everywhere condemned him, 
and his innocence was borne down by the slanderous reports 
of his enemies and the perverse judgments of the common 
people. And this cruel and unjust treatment which Dayid 
met with, ought to be carefully marked. For while nothing 
is more painful to us than to be falsely condemned, and to 
endure, at one and the same time, wrongful violence and 
slander ; yet to be ill spoken of for doing well, is an affliction 
which daily befalls the saints. And it becomes them to be so 
exercised under it as to turn away from all the enticements of 
the world, and to depend wholly upon God alone. Righteous- 
ness, therefore, is here to be understood of a good cause, of 
which David makes God the witness, while he complains of 
the malicious and wrongful conduct of men towards him; and, 
by his example, he teaches us, that if at any time our upright- 
ness is not seen and acknowledged by the world, we ought 
not on that account to despond, inasmuch as we have one in 
heaven to vindicate our cause. Even the heathen have said 
there is no better stage for virtue than a man’s own con- 
science. But it is a consolation far surpassing this, to know 
when men vaunt themselves over us wrongfully, that we are 
standing in the view of God and of the angels. Paul, we 
know, was endued with courage arising from this source, 
(1 Cor. iv. 5,) for when many evil reports were spread abroad 
concerning him among the Corinthians, he appeals to the 
judgment-seat of God. Isaiah also, fortified by the same 
confidence, (1. 6, and following verse,) despises all the 
slanders by which his enemies calumniated him. If, there- 
fore, we cannot find justice anywhere in the world, the only 
support of our patience is to look to God, and to rest con- 
tented with the equity of his judgment. 

It may, however, be asked, by way of objection, Since all 


1 Mon protecteur, celuy qui maintient mon droict.—F’r. My protec- 
tor, he who maintains my right. 


PSALM IV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 39 


the purity of men is mere pollution in the sight of God, how 
can the godly dare to bring forward their own righteousness 
before him? With respect to David, it is easy to answer 
this question. He did not boast of his own righteousness 
except in reference to his enemies, from whose calumnies he 
vindicated himself. He had the testimony of a good con- 
science that he had attempted nothing without the call and 
commandment of God, and therefore he does not speak rashly 
when he calls God the protector and defender of his right. 
Hence we learn that David honoured God with this title of 
praise, in order the more readily to set him in contrast with 
the whole world. And as he asks twice to be heard, in this 
there is expressed to us both the vehemence of his grief and 
the earnestness of his prayers. In the last clause of the 
verse, he also shows whence he expected to obtain what he 
needed, namely, from the mercy of God. And certainly, as 
often as we ask anything from God, it becomes us to begin 
with this, and to beseech him, according to his free good- 
ness, to relieve our miseries. 

Thou hast enlarged me when I was in distress. Some think 
that David here promises himself what he had not yet ex- 
perienced ; and in the exercise of hope anticipates the mani- 
festations of God’s grace with which he should afterwards 
be favoured. But, in my opinion, he rather mentions the 
benefits which he formerly received from God, and by these 
strengthens himself against the time tocome. Thus the faith- 
ful are accustomed to call to their remembrance those things 
which tend to strengthen their faith. We shall, hereafter, 
meet with many passages similar to this, where David, in 
order to give energy to his faith against terrors and dangers,' 
brings together the many experiences from which he had 
learned that God is always present with his own people and 
will never disappoint their desires. The mode of expression 
which he here employs is metaphorical, and by it he inti- 
mates that a way of escape was opened up to him even when 
he was besieged and enclosed on every side. The distress 


1 Contre les effrois et dangers qui se presentoyent.—Fr. Against the 
terrors and dangers which presented shoonalives, 


40 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IV. 


of which he speaks, in my opinion, refers not less to the state 
of his mind than to circumstances of outward affliction; for 
David’s heart was not of such an iron mould as to prevent 
him from being cast into deep mental anguish by adversity. 


2. O ye sons of men, how long will ye try to turn my glory into 
shame ? how long will ye love vanity, and seeking after ly- 
ing ? Selah. 

3. But know that Jehovah hath chosen for himself one who is 
merciful : Jehovah will hear when I call upon him. 


2. O ye sons of men. The happy result of the prayer of 
David was, that resuming courage, he was able not only to 
repel the fury of his enemies, but also to challenge them on 
his part, and fearlessly to despise all their machinations. 
That our confidence, therefore, may remain unshaken, we 
ought not, when assailed by the wicked, to enter into conflict 
without being furnished like David with the same armour. 
The sum is, that since God was determined to defend Dayid 
by his own power, it was in vain for all the men in the world 
to endeavour to destroy him; however great the power which 
they otherwise might have of doing him injury. By calling 
those whom he addresses the sons, not of Adam, or of some 
common person, but of men, he seems by the way to reprove 
their pride. I do not agree with certain Jewish expositors 
who think that nobles or men of rank are meant. It is rather 
an ironical concession of what they claimed to themselves, by 
which he ridicules their presumption, in esteeming themselves 
to be noble and wise, whereas it was only blind rage which 
impelled them to wicked enterprises. In the words how 
long, he condemns their perverse obstinacy; for what he 
means, is not that they were stirred up against him merely 
by some sudden impulse, but that the stubborn purpose of 
injuring him was deeply fixed in their hearts. Had not their 
maliciousness deprived them of their understanding, the many 


1 Le mot Hebrieu ne signifie pas simplement Homme, mais homme viril 
et robuste ; en quoy il semble taxer, en passant, leur arrogance.—Fr. The 
Hebrew word signifies not simply man, but a strong and robust man ; and 
by this word he seems, in passing, to rebuke their arrogance. 


PSALM Iv. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 41 


instances in which God had proved himself to be David's 
defender would have compelled them to desist from their 
attempts against him. But as they were fully determined 
to disgrace him whom God had exalted to the royal throne, 
he asks them, How long they will persevere in their endea- 
yours to turn his glory into shame. And it is to be observed, 
that although loaded with every kind of reproach, both among 
the high and the low, he yet courageously keeps fast hold of 
the glory or the honour of royalty which God had graciously 
promised him, or had conferred upon him, and is fully per- 
suaded that God will at length vindicate his right to it, 
however much his enemies might wickedly endeavour to blot 
and obscure it by treating his pretensions with derision and 
scorn. , 

How long will ye love vanity? In these words, he partly 
reproaches his enemies for the wicked and perverse passions 
with which he saw them to be impelled, although they falsely 
pretended to be actuated by a godly zeal; and he partly 
derides their folly in flattering themselves with the hope of 
success while fighting against God. And it is a most 
pointed rebuke. Even when the ungodly rush headlong 
into all manner of wickedness with the grossest' malice, 
they soothe themselves with deceitful flatteries in order not 
to be disturbed with the feelings of remorse. David, there- 
fore, cries out, that wilfully to shut their eyes, and varnish 
their unrighteousness with deceitful colours, would avail them 
nothing. The ungodly may indeed flatter and delude them- 
selyes, but when they are brought in good earnest to the 
trial, it will be always manifest that the reason why they 
are deceived is, because from the beginning they were 
determined to deal deceitfully. Now, from this place, we 
ought to take a shield of invincible stedfastness as often 
as we see ourselves overmatched in prudence and subtlety 
by the wicked. For with whatever engines they assault 
us, yet if we have the testimony of a good conscience, God 
will remain on our side, and against him they shall not 
prevail. They may greatly excel in ingenuity, and possess 

1 D’une malice si evidente qu'on la pourroit toucher au doigt.—Fr. 
With a malice so evident that one could touch it with the finger. 


42 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IV. 


much power of hurting us, and have their plans and subsidiary 
aid in the greatest readiness, and be very shrewd in discern- 
ment, yet whatever they may invent, it will be but lying 
and vanity. 


3. Know that Jehovah hath set apart, §c. This is a 
confirmation of the preceding verse; for it shows that the 
cause of David’s boldness consisted in this, that he depended 
upon God, the founder of his kingdom. And surely we 
may then safely triumph over our enemies when we are 
assured of having the call of God to the office which we 
hold, or the work in which we are engaged. Accordingly, 
David does not here boast of his own strength, or riches, or 
armies by which he obtained the kingdom. But as he was 
chosen by God, he intimates that the many attempts of his 
enemies against him would be without success, because they 
would find from experience, that God, whose power they 
could not successfully resist, was against them. In the first 
place, he says that he was set apart by God, by which he 
means that he was advanced to the throne, not by the will of 
man, or by his own ambition, but by the appointment of 
God. The Hebrew word mB, Phalah, signifies to sepa- 
rate, and it here refers to separation to honour and dignity; 
as if he had said, you admit no one as king but he who is 
chosen by your own suffrages, or who pleases you; but it is 
the peculiar prerogative of God to make choice of whom he 
will, By the word merciful or bountiful, he doubtless vin- 
dicates his right to be king, from the fact that this was 
a quality which belonged to himself; it is as if he had 
produced the mark or badge of his calling. For it was 
truly said in the old proverb, Mercy is the virtue most suit- 
able for kings. Now, God usually furnishes those whom 
he reckons worthy of having this honour conferred upon 
them, with the endowments requisite for the exercise of 
their office, that they may not be as dead idols. Some 
understand the word "DM, chasid, in a passive sense, not as 
denoting a beneficent person, but one who is placed on the 
throne by the favour of God. As, however, I meet with 
no examples of this signification of the word in Scripture, 


PSALM IV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 43 


I think it safer to follow the common interpretation, which 
is this : God has chosen a king, who answers to the character 
which should be possessed by all who are called to fill such 
an exalted station, in as much as he is merciful and benefi- 
cent. Hence, he infers that he would be heard by God as 
often as he called upon him; for God principally proves his 
faithfulness in this, that he does not forsake the work of 
his own hands, but continually defends those whom he has 
once received into his favour. Hence, we are taught fear- 
lessly to proceed in our path; because, whatever we may 
have undertaken according to his will, shall never be in- 
effectual. Let this truth then, obtain a fixed place in our 
minds, that God will never withhold his assistance from those 
who go on sincerely in their course. Without this comfort, 
the faithful must inevitably sink into despondency every 
moment. 


4. Tremble then, and sin not : commune with your own heart 
upon your bed, and be still. Selah. 

5. Sacrifice the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust 
in the Lord. 


4. Tremble then. Now he exhorts his enemies to repent~ 
ance, if peradventure, their madness was not wholly incor- 
rigible. In the first place, he bids them ¢remble, or be 
troubled ; a word by which he rebukes their stupidity in 
running headlong in their wicked course, without any fear of 
God, or any sense of danger. And certainly the great pre- 
sumption of all the ungodly in not hesitating to engage 
in war against God, proceeds from their being hardened 
through an infatuated security; and by their thoughtless- 
ness, they render themselves stupid, and become more ob- 
durate by forgetting both God and themselves, and following 
whithersoever lust leads them. He tells them that the best 
remedy to cure their rage, and prevent them from sinning 
any longer, would be to awaken from their lethargy, and 
begin to be afraid and tremble; as if he had said, As soon 
as you shall have shaken off your drowsiness and insensi- 
bility, your desire of sinning will abate; for the reason why 


44 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IV. 


the ungodly are troublesome to the good and the simple, 
and cause so much confusion, is because they are too much 
at peace with themselves. 

He afterwards admonishes them to commune with their own 
heart upon their bed, that is, to take an account of themselves 
at leisure, and as it were, in some place of deep retirement ;' 
an exercise which is opposed to their indulgence of their 
unruly passions. In the end of the verse he enjoins them 
to be still. Now, it is to be observed, that the cause of this 
stillness is the agitation and trembling, of which he before _ 
made mention. For if any have been hurried into sin by 
their infatuated recklessness, the first step of their return to 
a sound mind is to awaken themselves from their deep sleep 
to fearfulness and trembling. After this follows calm and 
deliberate reflection; then they consider and reconsider to 
what dangers they have been exposing themselves; and 
thus at length they, whose audacious spirits shrink at no- 
thing, learn to be orderly and peaceable, or, at least, they 
restrain their frantic violence. 

To commune upon one’s bed, is a form of expression taken 
from the common practice and experience of men. We 
know that, during our intercourse with men in the day time, 
our thoughts are distracted, and we often judge rashly, 
being deceived by the external appearance; whereas in soli- 
tude, we can give to any subject a closer attention; and, 
farther, the sense of shame does not then hinder a man from 
thinking without disguise of his own faults. David, there- 
fore, exhorts his enemies to withdraw from those who wit- 
nessed and judged of their actions on the public stage of life, 
and to be alone, that they may examine themselves more 
truthfully and honestly. And this exhortation has a respect 
to us all; for there is nothing to which men are more prone 
than to deceive one another with empty applause, until each 
man enter into himself, and commune alone with his own 
heart. Paul, when quoting this passage in Eph. iv. 26, or, 
at least, when alluding to the sentiment of Dayid, follows 


1 Et estans retirez’ part pour sonder leurs consciences.—Fr. And 
being retired by themselves to probe or examine their consciences, 


PSALM IV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 45 


the Septuagint, “Be ye angry and sin not.” And yet he 
has skilfully and beautifully applied it to his purpose. He 
there teaches us that men, instead of wickedly pouring forth 
their anger against their neighbours, have rather just cause 
to be angry with themselves, in order that, by this means, 
they may abstain from sin. And, therefore, he commands 
them rather to fret inwardly, and be angry with themselves ; 
and then to be angry, not so much at the persons, as at the 
vices of others. 


5. Sacrifice ye. Many are of opinion that David exhorts 
his enemies to give some evidence of their repentance; and 
I certainly admit, that sacrifices were partly enjoined for the 
purpose of inducing men to walk in newness of life. But when 
I consider the character of the men who opposed David, I 
am satisfied that he here censures their hypocrisy, and beats 
down their groundless boasting. David, when he wandered 
as a fugitive in deserts, or in caves, or on mountains, or in 
the regions beyond his own country, might seem to have 
been separated from the Church of God; and certainly he 
was commonly accounted as a corrupt member cut off from 
the body and the communion of the saints. Meanwhile the 
~ ark of the covenant was in the hands of his enemies, they 
kept possession of the temple, and they were the first in 
offering sacrifices. They, therefore, vaunted themselves 
against David with the same boldness and presumption with 
which we know hypocrites to have been always puffed up. 
Nor is it to be doubted, but they proudly abused the name 
of God as if they only had been his true worshippers.’ But 
as Jeremiah (chap. vii. 4) rebukes the ungodly, because of 
the false confidence which they placed in the temple of the 
Lord; so David also denies that God is pacified by mere 
outward ceremonies, since he requires pure sacrifices. There 
is in the words an implied contrast between the sacrifices 


1 Comme s’ils eussent este gens de bien, adonnez a son service et qu'il 
n’y eust eu zele qu’en secede As if they had been his genuine people, 
devoted to his service, and that there was no zeal but among them, 


46 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IV. 


of righteousness, and all those vain and spurious rites’ with 
which the counterfeit worshippers of God satisfy themselves. 
The sum, therefore, is, “ You boast of having God on your 
side, because you have free access to his altar to offer your 
sacrifices there with great pomp; and because I am banished 
from the Holy Land, and not suffered to come to the tem- 
ple, you think that I am not an object of the divine care. But 
you must worship God in a far different manner, if you 
would expect any good at his hand; for your unclean sacri- 
fices with which you pollute his altar, so far from rendering 
him favourable to you, will do nothing else but provoke his 
wrath.” Let us learn from this passage, that, in contending 
with the corruptors of true religion, who may have the name 
of God continually in their mouth, and vaunt themselves on 
account of their observance of his outward worship, we may 
safely rebuke their boasting, because they do not offer the 
right sacrifices. But, at the same time, we must beware lest 
a vain pretence of godliness foster in us a perverse and ill 
founded confidence, in place of true hope. 


6. Many say, Who will show us good ?2 Lift thou up upon us the 
light of thy countenance, O Jehovah. 

7. Thou hast given more joy to my heart than they have in the 
time when their corn and their wine are increased. 


6. Many say. Some are of opinion that David here com- 
plains of the cruel malice of his enemies, because they 
greedily sought for his life. But David, I have no doubt, 
compares the sole wish with which his own heart was burn- 
ing, to the many desires with which almost all mankind are 


' Entre les sacrifices de justice et toutes les ceremonies, quand elles sont 
destituees de la verite interieure et destournees de leur droit usage et par 
consequent falsifiees—Fr. Between the sacrifices of righteousness, and 
all ceremonies, when they are unaccompanied with sincerity of heart, and 
perverted from their ies wed use, and are consequently spurious. 

2 The reader will observe, that Calvin does not use the word any, a 
supplement which is to be found in our English version. The question is 
certainly more emphatic without this word. “The word any,” says 
Dr Adam Clarke, “ is not in the text, nor any thing equivalent to it ; and 
yet not a few have quoted it, and preached upon the text, placing the 
principal emphasis upon this illegitimate word. 


PSALM IV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. AT 


distracted. As it is not a principle held and acted upon by 
ungodly men, that those only can be truly and perfectly happy 
who are interested in the favour of God, and that they 
ought to live as strangers and pilgrims in the world, in order 
through hope and patience to obtain, in due time, a better 
life, they remain contented with perishing good things; 
and, therefore, if they enjoy outward prosperity, they are not 
influenced by any great concern about God. Accordingly, 
while, after the manner of the lower animals, they grasp x 
at various objects, some at one thing, and some at another, 
thinking to find in them supreme happiness, David, with 
very good reason, separates himself from them, and pro- 
poses to himself an end of an entirely opposite description. 
I do not quarrel with the interpretation which supposes that 
David is here complaining of his own followers, who, find- 
ing their strength insufficient for bearing the hardships 
which befel them, and exhausted by weariness and grief, 
indulged in complaints, and anxiously desired repose. But 
I am rather inclined to extend the words farther, and to view 
them as meaning that David, contented with the favour of 
God alone, protests that he disregards, and sets no value on 
objects which others ardently desire. This comparison of the X 
. desire of David with the desires of the world, well illustrates 
this important doctrine,’ that the faithful, forming a low esti- 
mate of present good things, rest in God alone, and account 
nothing of more value than to know from experience that 
they are interested in his favour. David, therefore, intimates, 
in the first place, that all those are fools, who, wishing to 
enjoy prosperity, do not begin with seeking the favour of 
God; for, by neglecting to do this, they are carried about by 
the various false opinions which are abroad. In the second 
place, he rebukes another vice, namely, that of gross and 
earthly men in giving themselves wholly to the ease and 
comforts of the flesh, and in settling down in, or contenting 
themselves with, the enjoyment of these alone, without 


1 Or ceste comparaison du desir de David avec ceux des mondains am- 
plifie bien la substance de ceste doctrine.—Fr. 


48 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IV. 


thinking of any thing higher.!| Whence also it comes to 
pass, that as long as they are supplied with other things 
according to their desire, they are altogether indifferent 
about God, just as if they had no need of him. David, on 
the contrary, testifies, that although he may be destitute of 
all other good things, the fatherly love of God is sufficient 
to compensate for the loss of themall. This, therefore, is the 
purport of the whole: “The greater number of men greedily 
seek after present pleasures and advantages; but I maintain 
that perfect felicity is only to be found in the favour of God.” 

David uses the expression, The light of God’s countenance, 
to denote his serene and pleasant countenance—the mani- 
festations of his favour and love ; just as, on the other hand, 
the face of God seems to us dark and clouded when he shows 
the tokens of hisanger. This light, by a beautiful metaphor, 
is said to be lifted up, when, shining in our hearts, it produces 
trust and hope. It would not be enough for us to be beloved 
by God, unless the sense of this love came home to our 
hearts; but, shining upon them by the Holy Spirit, he 
cheers us with true and solid joy. This passage teaches us 
that those are miserable who do not, with full resolution, 
repose themselves wholly in God, and take satisfaction 
therein,’ even although they may have an overflowing abun- 
dance of all earthly things; while, on the other hand, the 
faithful, although they are tossed amidst many troubles, 
are truly happy, were there no other ground for it but this, 
that God’s fatherly countenance shines upon them, which 
turns darkness into light, and, as I may say, quickens even 
death itself. 


7. Thou hast given more joy to my heart. By another com- 
parison he better expresses and illustrates the strength of 
his affection, showing that, having obtained the good which 
he had longed for, he does not in the least degree envy the 
wealth and enjoyments of others, but is altogether contented 
with his own lot. The sum is, that he had more satisfac- 


1 Se contentent d’en jouir sans panser plus haut.—Fr. 
? Se repose totalement en Dieu et y prendre contentement.—Fr, 


> 
prs 


~— EE ——— 


PSALM IV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 49 


tion in seeing the reconciled countenance of God beaming. 
upon him, than ifhe had possessed garners full of corn, and cel- 
lars full of wine.’ Interpreters are not agreed as to the word 
Ky, me-eth, which we have translated, in the time. Some give 
this rendering, Thou hast put gladness into my heart, SINCE 
THE TIME that their corn and wine increased ; as if David had 
said, I rejoice when I see mine enemies prospering in the 
world.’ But the former translation appears to me much more 
suitable ; according to which David declares, that he rejoices 
more in the favour of God alone, than earthly men rejoice 
when they enjoy all earthly good things, with the desire of 
which they are generally inflamed. He had represented them 
as so bent upon, and addicted to, the pursuit of worldly pros- 
perity, as to have no great care about God; and now he 
adds, that their joy in the abundance and increase of their 
wine and corn is not so great as is his joy in a sense of the 
divine goodness alone. This verse contains very profitable 
instruction. We see how earthly men, after they have 
despised the grace of God, and plunged themselves over head 
and ears in transitory pleasures, are so far from being satis- 
fied with them, that the very abundance of them inflames 
their desires the more; and thus, in the midst of their ful- 
ness, a secret uneasiness renders their minds uncomfortable. 
Never, therefore, shall we obtain undisturbed peace and solid 
joy until the favour of God shine upon us. And although 
the faithful also desire and seek after their worldly comforts, 
yet they do not pursue them with immoderate and irregular 
ardour; but can patiently bear to be deprived of them, 
provided they know themselves to be the objects of the 
divine care. 

8. I will lay me down, and will sleep together in peace ; for 

thou, Lord, hast placed me alone’* in safety. 


He concludes by stating, that as he is protected by the 


! The allusion is to the joy of the harvest and vintage. 

2 “ Or combien que les expositeurs varient en ce mot que nous avons 
traduit, Au temps: pource qu’aucuns traduisent, ‘Tu m’as donné liesse au 
ceur depuis le temps que, &c., comme s'il disoit, Je suis joyeux quand je 
voy prosperer mes ennemis en ce monde.” —. 

** Seul ou & part.”—Fr. 
VOL, I. D 


50 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM Iv. 


power of God, he enjoys as much security and quiet as if he 
had been defended by all the garrisons on earth. Now, we 
know, that to be free from all fear, and from the torment and 
vexation of care, is a blessing to be desired above all other 
things. This verse, therefore, is a confirmation of the for- 
mer sentence, intimating that David justly prefers the joy 
produced by the light of God’s fatherly love before all other 
objects: for inward peace of mind certainly surpasses all the 
blessings of which we can form any conception. Many com- 
mentators explain this place as expressing David’s hope, 
that his enemies will be reconciled to him, so that he may 
sleep with them in peace, God having granted him the pecu- 
liar privilege of being able to rest without being disturbed or 
disquieted by any man. But in my judgment the proper 
meaning is this, that he will live as quietly and securely alone, 
as in the midst of a great host of men, because God defends 
him : for in the words, I will sleep together, I consider the par- 
ticle as to be understood, as if the reading were as together, 
that is to say, as with a multitude. Some refer 7499, Jeba- 
dad, alone, to God, translating the words thus, Thou alone, 
O Lord, hast set me in safety; but this I do not at all 
approve, because, by taking away the contrast between 
these two words, together and alone, much of the beauty of 
the sentence is lost. In short, David boasts that the pro- 
tection of God alone was sufficient, and that under it he 
sleeps as securely, although destitute of all human guardian- 
ship, as if he had had many to keep watch and ward con- 
tinually over him, or as if he had been defended on all sides 
by a great company. Let us, therefore, learn from his 
example, to yield this honour to God—to believe, that 
although there may appear no help for us from men, yet 
under his hand alone we are kept in peace and safety, as if 
we were surrounded by a great host. 


—— 





lt en nil 





PSALM V. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 51 


PSALM V. 


David being grievously oppressed by the cruelty of his enemies, and ap- 
prehending still more mischief, earnestly beseeches God for help. And 
the more easily to obtain what he asks, after having, by the ear- 
nestness of his prayers, manifested the greatness of his grief, he first 
brings forward the intolerable malice of his enemies, showing how in- 
consistent it would be with the character of God, were they to be left 
unpunished. He next speaks of his own faith and patience, and even 
comfort ; having no doubt whatever of a happy issue. Finally, he 
concludes, that when he shall be delivered, the benefits resulting from 
his deliverance would not be limited to himself, but would extend to 


all the godly. 
{ To the chief musician upon Nehiloth. A psalm of David. 


Some translate the Hebrew word Nehiloth, heritages, and others, armies. 
The former assign this reason for their opinion, that David prayed for 
the welfare of the twelve tribes, whom he calls heritages.1 The latter 
assert in support of their view, that being besieged by a vast multitude 
of men, he betook himself to God for succour; and, according to this 
sense, the word upon will signify against. But not approving of the 
conjectures of many who speak upon these inscriptions of The Psalms as 
if they were riddles,? I adopt the opinion of those who hold thatit was 
either a musical instrument or a tune; but of what particular kind I 
consider it of little importance to ascertain. 


1. Give ear unto my words, O Jehovah ; attend to my speech. 
2. Hearken to the voice of my cry, my King and my God : for 
unto thee will I pray, 


I presume not positively to determine whether David, in 
this psalm, bewails the wrongs which he suffered from his 
enemies at some particular time, or whether he complains 
generally of the various persecutions with which, for a long 
time, he was harassed under Saul. Some of the Jewish 
commentators apply the psalm even to Absalom; because, 


1 Qu’il appelle Heritages.”—Fr. 
* Mais pource que je n’approuve point ce que devinent plusieurs 
parlans comme par enigmes sur ces inscriptions des Pseaumes.”—Fr. 


52 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM Y. 


by the bloody and deceitful man, they think Doeg and Ahi- 
thophel are pointed out. To me, however, it appears more 
probable, that when David, after the death of Saul, had got 
peaceable possession of the kingdom, he committed to writ- 
ing the prayers which he had meditated in his afflictions and 
dangers. But to come to the words :—First, he expresses one 
thing in three different ways; and this repetition denotes the 
strength of his affection, and his long perseverance in prayer. 
For he was not so fond of many words as to employ dif- 
ferent forms of expression, which had no meaning ; but being 
deeply engaged in prayer, he represented, by these various 
expressions, the variety of his complaints.’ It therefore 
signifies, that he prayed neither coldly nor only in few 
words; but that, according as the vehemence of his grief 
urged him, he was earnest in bewailing his calamities before 
God; and that since it did not immediately appear what 
would be their issue, he persevered in repeating the same 
complaints. Again, he does not expressly state what he 
desires to ask from God :? but there is a greater force in this 
kind of suppression, than if he had spoken distinctly. By not 
uttering the desires of his heart, he shows more emphatically 
that his inward feelings, which he brought with him before 
God, were such that language was insufficient to express them. 
Again, the word cry, which signifies a loud and sonorous 
utterance of the voice, serves to mark the earnestness of his 
desire. David did not cry out as it were into the ears of 
one who was deaf; but the vehemence of his grief, and his 
inward anguish, burst forth into this cry. The verb 737, 
hagah, from which the noun }'37, hagig, speech, which the 
prophet here uses, is derived, means both to speak distinctly, 
and to whisper or to mutter. But the second sense seems bet- 
ter suited to this passage.* After David has said in general, 
that God hears his words, he seems, immediately after, for 


'“Tla aussi representé et exprimé ses Fai qui estoyent en 
grand nombre et de beaucoup de sortes.”—Fr, 

2 “ Ce qu’il veut requerir a Dieu.”—Fr, 

3 Bishop Horne beautifully renders the word, “ dove-like mournings,” 
and Bishop Horsley, “‘ sighing.” ‘* The word,” says Hammond, “ regu- 
larly signifies sighing or cry, not a loud, sonorous voice, but such as com- 
plaints are made in.” : 





— 


PSALM V. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 53 


the purpose of being more specific, to divide them into two 
kinds, calling the one obscure or indistinct moanings, and 
the other loud crying. By the first he means a confused 
muttering, such as is described in the Song of Hezekiah, 
when sorrow hindered him from speaking distinctly, and 
making his voice to be heard. “ Like a crane, or a swallow, 
so did I chatter; I did mourn asa dove,” (Isaiah xxxviii. 
14.) If, then, at any time we are either backward to pray, 
or our devout affections begin to lose their fervour, we must 
here seek for arguments to quicken and urge us forward. 
And as by calling God his King and his God, he intended to 
stir up himself to entertain more lively and favourable hopes 
with respect to the issue of his afflictions, let us learn to 
apply these titles to a similar use, namely, for the purpose 
of making ourselves more familiar with God. At the close, 
he testifies that he does not sullenly gnaw the bit, as unbe- 
lievers are accustomed to do; but directs his groaning to 
God: for they who, disregarding God, either fret inwardly 
or utter their complaints to men, are not worthy of being 
regarded by him. Some translate the last clause thus, 
When I pray to thee; but to me it seems rather to be the 
reason which David assigns for what he had said immedi- 
ately before, and that his purpose is, to encourage himself 
to trust in God, by assuming this as a general principle— 
that whoever call upon God in their calamities never meet 
with a repulse from him. 


3. O that thou wouldst hear my voice in the morning ; O Jeho- 
vah, in the morning will I direct unto thee, and I will keep 
watch. 


The first sentence may also be read in the future tense of 
the indicative mood, Thou shalt hear my prayer. But, in 
my opinion, the verb is rather in the optative mood, as I 
have translated it. Having besought God to grant his 


1 «Tl semble que puis apres, pour mieux specifier, il en met deux sortes, 
t les unes Complaintes obscures, et les autres Cri.”—Fr. 
“Quand la douleur l’empesche de parler distinctement et faire en- 
tendre sa voix.”—Jr. 


54 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM Y. 


requests, he now entreats him to make haste. Some think 
he alludes to the morning prayers which were wont to be 
joined with the daily sacrifices in the temple, according to 
the appointment of the law. Although I do not disapprove 
of this opinion, yet I have no doubt but that, constrained by 
the weariness of a somewhat lengthened delay, he wishes his 
deliverance to be hastened ; as if he had said, “ As soon as I 
awake, this will be the first subject of my thoughts. There- 
fore, O Lord, delay no longer the help of which I stand in 
need, but grant immediately my desires.” The expression, 
To direct unto God, I take to signify the same thing as 
directly to approach to God. Many, as if the language 
were elliptical, supply the words, my prayer. But in my 
judgment, David rather intends to declare that he was not 
turned hither and thither, nor drawn different ways by the 
temptations to which he was exposed, but that to betake 
himself to God was the settled order of his life. There is, 
in the words, an implied contrast between the rambling and 
uncertain movements of those who look around them for 
worldly helps, or depend on their own counsels, and the 
direct leading of faith, by which all the godly are withdrawn 
from the vain allurements of the world, and have recourse to 
God alone. The Hebrew word yy, arac, signifies to set in 
order or dispose, and sometimes to dress or make fit. This 
sense is very suitable to the passage, in which David 
plainly declares it to be his determination not to be drawn 
away in any degree from his orderly course into the indirect 
and circuitous paths of error and sin, but to come directly to 
God. By the word, watch, he conveys the idea of hope and 
patience as well as of anxiety. As MBY, tsapah, in Hebrew 
means, to wait for, as well as to look for, David, I have no 
doubt, intended to say, that after he had disburdened his 
cares into the bosom of God, he would, with an anxious 
mind, look out, as it. were, like a sentinel, until it should ap- 
pear, that in very deed God had heard him. No doubt, in 
the exercise of longing, there is always implied some degree 
of uneasiness; but he who is looking out for the grace of 
God with anxious desire, will patiently wait for it. This 


PSALM VY. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 55 


passage, therefore, teaches us the uselessness of those prayers 
to which there is not added that hope which may be said to 
elevate the minds of the petitioners into a watch-tower. 


4, For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness ;* 
evil shall not dwell with thee. 

5. The foolish shall not stand in thy sight ; thou hatest all that 
commit iniquity. 

6. Thou shalt destroy them that speak falsehood ; Jehovah will 
abhor the blood-thirsty* and deceitful man. 


Here David makes the malice and wickedness of his ene- 
mies an argument to enforce his prayer for the divine favour 
towards him. The language is indeed abrupt, as the saints 
in prayer will often stammer; but this stammering is more 
acceptable to God than all the figures of rhetoric, be they 
eyer so fine and glittering. Besides, the great object which 
David has in view, is to show, that since the cruelty and 
treachery of his enemies had reached their utmost height, 
it was impossible but that God would soon arrest them in 
their course. His reasoning is grounded upon the nature of 
God. ‘Since righteousness and upright dealing are pleasing 
to him, David, from this, concludes that he will take ven- 
geance on all the unjust and wicked. And howis it possible 
for them to escape from his hand unpunished, seeing he is 
the judge of the world? The passage is worthy of our most 
special attention. For we know how greatly we are dis- 
couraged by the unbounded insolence of the wicked. If 
God does not immediately restrain it, we are either stupified 
and dismayed, or cast down imto despair. But David, 
from this, rather finds matter of encouragement and confi- 
dence. The greater the lawlessness with which his enemies 
proceeded against him, the more earnestly did he suppli- 
cate preservation from God, whose office it is to destroy all 
the wicked, because he hates all wickedness. 


1 “ Ou le mauvais."—Fr. Marg. ‘* Or the wicked.” 

® The words in the original are myn ex, ish damim, literally, the man of 
bloods. The plural number is used, probably to teach us, the man 

who thirsts for human blood is rarely satisfied with one victim. 


56 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM Y. 


Let all the godly, therefore, learn, as often as they have 
to contend against violence, deceit, and injustice, to raise 
their thoughts to God in order to encourage themselves in 
the certain hope of deliverance, according as Paul also ex- 
horts them in 2 Thess. i. 5, “ Which is,” says he, “ a mani- 
fest token of the righteous judgment of God, that ye may be 
counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also 
suffer: seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recom- 
pense tribulation to them that trouble you; and to you who 
are troubled, rest with us.” And assuredly he would not be 
the judge of the world if there were not laid up in store with 
him a recompense for all the ungodly. One use, then, which 
may be made of this doctrine is this,—when we see the 
wicked indulging themselves in their lusts, and when, in 
consequence, doubts steal into our minds as to whether God 
takes any care of us, we should learn to satisfy ourselves with 
the consideration that God, who hates and abhors all iniquity, 
will not permit them to pass unpunished; and although he 
bear with them for a time, he will at length ascend into the 
judgment-seat, and show himself an avenger, as he is the 
protector and defender of his people.' Again, we may 
infer from this passage the common doctrine, that God, 
although he works by Satan and by the ungodly, and makes 
use of their malice for executing his judgments, is not, on 
this account, the author of sin, nor is pleased with it because 
the end which he purposes is always righteous; and he 
justly condemns and punishes those who, by his mysterious 
providence, are driven whithersoever he pleases. 

In the 4th verse some take 5, ra, in the masculine gen- 
der, for a wicked man; but I understand it rather of wicked- 
ness itself. David declares simply, that there is no agree- 
ment between God and unrighteousness. He immediately 
after proceeds to speak of the men themselves, saying, the 
foolish shall not stand in thy sight; and it is a very just in- 
ference from this, that iniquity is hateful to God, and that, 
therefore, he will execute just punishment upon all the 
wicked. He calls those fools, according to a frequent use of 


1 “ Comme il est protecteur et defenseur des siens.”—Fr, 








PSALM VY. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 57 


the term in Scripture, who, impelled by blind passion, rush 
headlong into sin. Nothing is more foolish, than for the un- 
godly to cast away the fear of God, and suffer the desire of 
doing mischief to be their ruling principle; yea, there is no 
madness worse than the contempt of God, under the influ- 
ence of which men pervert all right. David sets this truth 
before himself for his own comfort; but we also may draw 
from it doctrine very useful in training us to the fear of God; 
for the Holy Spirit, by declaring God to be the avenger of 
wickedness, puts a bridle upon us, to restrain us from com- 
mitting sin, in the vain hope of escaping with impunity. 


7. And I, in the multitude [or abundance] of thy mercy, will enter 
into thy house ; I will worship in thy holy temple in thy fear. 


Some think that the word and, by which this sentence is 
joined to the preceding, is put for but; as if David, comparing 
himself with the ungodly, declared and assured himself that 
God would be merciful to him, while he abhorred and would 
destroy the wicked. But I heave it to my readers to judge 
whether it does not suit the passage better to consider this 
verse as an inference from what goes before, which might be 
put in this form: “O Lord, thou canst not bear with the 
wicked ; when, therefore, 1 am saved out of their hands by 
thy power, I will come to present myself before thee in thy 
temple, to give thee thanks for the deliverance which thou 
hast vouchsafed to me.” If the former interpretation be 
preferred, then the prophet, by simply commending his own 
piety towards God, separates himself from the class of 
whom he spoke. The scope of the passage leads us to 
understand him as promising to give thanks to God. He 
had before spoken of his enemies as hated of God; and 
now, being persuaded that God will keep him in safety, he 
calls himself to the exercise of gratitude. J will come 
into thy temple, says he, in the multitude of thy mercy; as 
if he had said, I may now seem to be in a condition almost 
desperate, but by the favour of God, I shall be kept in per- 
fect safety. This passage, therefore, teaches us, that when 
we are afflicted by the most distressing temptations, we 


58 COMMENTARY UPON  - PSALM Vs 


ought to set the grace of God before our eyes, in order 
thereby to be supported with the hope of the divine 
interposition amidst the greatest dangers. Farther, as our 
carnal minds either wickedly undervalue the grace of God, 
or put the low estimate upon it which is commonly put by 
the world, let us learn to extol its wonderful greatness, 
which is sufficient to enable us to overcome all fears. The 
primary object of David was to encourage himself in the 
assured hope of preservation from the merey of God ; 
but at the same time he shows, that upon obtaining 
deliverance, he will be grateful to God for it, and keep 
it in remembrance. And as hypocrites, in giving thanks 
to God, do nothing else but profane his name, inasmuch 
as they themselves are unholy and polluted, he there- 
fore resolves to come in the fear of God, in order to worship 
him with a sincere and upright heart. Again, we may hence 
draw the general truth, that it is only through the goodness 
of God that we have access to him; and that no man prays 
aright but he who, having experienced his grace, believes and 
is fully persuaded that he will be merciful to him. The fear 
of God is at the same time added, in order to distinguish 
genuine and godly trust from the vain confidence of the 
flesh. 


8. O Jehovah, lead me forth in thy righteousness, because of 
mine adversaries : make thy way straight before my face. 

9. For there is no faithfulness in their mouth ; their inward 
parts are very wickedness; their throat is an open sepulchre ; 
with their tongues they deal deceitfully. 

10. Cause them to err, O God; let them fall from their counsels; 

destroy them in the multitude! of their transgressions ; for 
they have rebelled against thee. 


8. O Jehovah, lead me forth, §c. Some explain these words 
thus: Show me what is right, and make me wholly devoted 
to the practice of that righteousness which adorns thy charac- 
ter; and do this because of my adversaries; for the saints, 
impelled by the wicked practice and deceitful arts of the 


1 “ Pour la multitude.”"—Fr. ‘ For the multitude.” 


—_ ev 


OEE = 





PSALM V. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 59 


ungodly, are in danger of turning aside from the right way. 
This meaning is unquestionably a pious and a useful one. 
But the other interpretation is more suitable, which views 
the words as a prayer that God would lead his servant in 
safety through the midst of the snares of his enemies, and 
open up to him a way of escape, even when, to all appear- 
ance, he was caught and surrounded on every side. The 
righteousness of God, therefore, in this passage, as in many 
others, is to be understood of his faithfulness and mercy 
which he shows in defending and preserving his people. 
Consequently, in thy righteousness, means the same thing as 
for or according to thy righteousness. David, desiring to have 
God as the guide of his path, encourages himself in the hope 
of obtaining his request, because God is righteous; as if he 
had said, Lord, as thou art righteous, defend me with thine 
aid, that I may escape from the wicked plots of my enemies. 
Of the same import is the last clause of the verse, where 
he prays that the way of God may be made straight before his 
face, in other words, that he might be delivered by the power 
of God from the distresses with which he was so completely 
surrounded, that, according to the judgment of the flesh, he 
_ never expected to find a way of escape. And thus he ac- 
knowledges how impossible it was for him to avoid being 
entangled in the snares of his enemies,’ unless God both 
gave him wisdom, and opened up for him a way where no way 
is. It becomes us, after his example, to do the same thing; 
so that distrusting ourselves when counsel fails us, and the 
malice and wickedness of our enemies prevail, we may be- 
take ourselves speedily to God, in whose hands are the issues 
of death, as we shall see afterwards, (Ps. lxix.) 


9. For there is no faithfulness in their mouth. He still re- 
peats the same complaints which he made before, in order 
thereby to render his enemies the more odious in the sight 
of God, and to call forth in his own behalf the mercy of God, 


1 “Par ainsi il confesse n’avoir ne dexterite ne force, ne mesme aucun 
moyen pour eviter les embusches des ennemis.”—Fr. ‘Thus he con- 
fesses that he has neither skill nor power, nor any means whatever, by 
which to avoid the snares of his enemies.” 


60 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM Y. 


- 


who has promised to succour those who are unjustly op- 
pressed. And this is to be particularly attended to, that 
the more our enemies manifest their cruelty against us, or 
the more wickedly they vex us, we ought, with so much 
the greater confidence, to send up our groanings to heaven, 
because God will not suffer their rage to proceed to the utter- 
most, but will bring forth their malice and wicked devices 
to the light. In the first place, he accuses them of treachery, 
because they speak nothing uprightly, or in sincerity; and 
the cause which he assigns for this is, that inwardly they 
are full of iniquity. He next compares them to sepulchres, 
their throat is an open sepulchre; as if he had said, they are 
devouring gulfs;' meaning by this, their insatiable desire of 
shedding blood. In the close of the verse, he again speaks 
of their deceitfulness. From all this we conclude, that the 
wrongs with which he was tried were of no ordinary kind, 
but that he had to contend with enemies the most wicked, 
who had neither humanity nor moderation. Being so miser- 
ably oppressed, he not only perseveres in prayer, but finds 
ground of hope even from the confusion and apparent hope- 
lessness of his outward condition. 

When Paul, (Rom. iii. 13,) in quoting this passage, ex- 
tends it to all mankind, both Jews and Gentiles, he does 
not give to it a meaning of greater latitude than the Holy 
Spirit intended to give. Since he takes it as an undeniable 
point, that under the person of David, there is here described 
to us the church, both in the person of Christ, who is the 
head, and in his members, it follows that all those ought to 
be reckoned among the number of his enemies, who have 
not been regenerated by the Spirit of God, whether they 
are without the pale of the visible church, or within it. For 


David, in this passage, does not summons either the Assy- — 


rians or the Egyptians to the judgment-seat of God, but the 
degenerate Jews, who, being circumcised in the flesh, gloried 
in their descent from the hvly lineage of Abraham. Paul, 
therefore, does not wrest these words from their genuine 
meaning when he applies them to all mankind, but asserts, 


1 “ Gouffres qui devorent tout."—F'r, ‘ Gulfs which devour all,” 





PSALM V. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 61 


with truth, that David showed in them what is the charac- 
ter of the whole human family by nature. 


10. Cause them to err. As the Hebrew word Mw, 
asam, signifies to cut up or to destroy, as well as to sin, and is 
taken metaphorically for to err, or be deceived, either of 
these senses is suitable in this passage; but, as David im- 
mediately after subjoins, Let them fall from their counsels, I 
have no doubt but this first prayer is allied and similar to 
the second. I therefore join these two clauses together, as 
the cause and the effect. In the first, he prays that God 
would deprive them of their understanding, and drive them 
into error; and in the second, he prays that, as the effect of 
this, their counsels might come to nought, in other words, 
that their undertakings might prove unsuccessful.' For 
how is it that the ungodly take counsel in vain, and are 
carried hither and thither without consideration or judg- 
ment, and become so basely obstinate, if it is not because 
the Lord takes them unawares in their own craftiness, 
breaks their artful schemes, intoxicates them with the spirit 
of phrenzy and giddiness, so that they act foolishly even in 
the smallest matters? If, therefore, we are afraid of the 
. snares and deceits of men, and if we find those who desire 
to do us mischief to be clear-headed and sharp-witted per- 
sons, let us remember, that it is the continual office of God 
to strike with stupidity and madness those who are wise to 
commit iniquity. Thus it will come to pass, that although 
we may be asleep, the Lord will dissipate with the breath of 
his mouth their devices, be they never so subtle, and, in the 
end, expose them to the mockery of the whole world. In 
short, David wishes God to lay his hand upon his enemies, 
and to put a stop to their wicked deliberations. And in 
fact it is necessary that God bring to nothing the schemes 
which the wicked cunningly devise, since it is Satan, the 
contriver of all deceits, who suggests to them all their 
methods of doing mischief. By praying, Let them fall from 
their counsels, he means that they may not obtain or accom- 


1% C’est A dire, ne vienent & bout de leurs enterprises.”—Fr, 


62 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM Y. 


plish what they had determined. Again, he prays to God 
to punish them as they deserved, because, in wrongfully and 
wickedly making war against an innocent person, they rebel- 
led against God. The proud, indeed, never think of this, 
that the poor, whom they afflict and despise, are of such esti- 
mation in the sight of God, that he feels himself insulted and 
injured in their persons: for they do not imagine that the 
blows aimed at them are struck against heaven, any more 
than if they trampled a little dust or clay under their feet. 
But God bestows upon his servants the inestimable reward 
of taking their cause into his own hand. Whoever, there- 
fore, has an approving conscience, and does not turn aside 
from his uprightness, although troubled wrongfully, has no 
reason to doubt of his warrant to improve God as a buckler 
against his enemies. 


11. And let all rejoice who put their trust in thee, yea, let them 
rejoice for ever ; and cover thou them, and let those that 
love thy name delight in thee 

12. For, thou, O Jehovah, shalt bless the righteous, thou shalt 
encompass them with thy loving kindness as with a shield. 


11. And let all rejoice, &c. It makes little difference as to 
the sense, whether we read these words in the future tense, 
All shall rejoice, §c., or in the optative mood, Let all rejoice, 
§c.; for in both ways the meaning of the prophet will be 
the same; namely, that if God deliver him, the fruit of this 
deliverance will be common to all the godly; as if he had 
said, Lord, if thou succourest me, the goodness which thou 
conferrest upon me will not rest on me alone, but will extend 
to all thy servants: for this will serve the more to confirm 
their faith, and make them praise thy name the more. In 
order, therefore, to induce God to grant him deliverance, he 
employs as an argument the end or effect which it would 
produce, inasmuch as it would stir up all the godly to exer- 

1 In the older Latin editions, and in the French edition, the verbs for 
rejoice and eens are rendered, on the margin, in the future tense, 
thus :—‘* And all who trust in thee shall rejoice; yea, they shall rejoice 
for be! j and cover thou them, and those that love thy name shall delight 
in thee, 








PSALM Y. THE BOOK OF PSALMS, 63 


cise greater trust in God, and encourage them to give praise 
and thanks to him. This passage teaches us, that we are 
ungrateful to God if we do not take encouragement and 
comfort from whatever blessings he confers upon our neigh- 
bours, since by these he testifies that he will always be 
ready to bestow his goodness upon all the godly in common. 
Accordingly, the reason of this joy is added, because the Lord 
will cover or protect them. As often as God bestows any 
blessings upon any of the faithful, the rest, as I have said 
before, ought to conclude that he will show himself benefi- 
cent towards them. Again, this passage teaches us, that 
true joy proceeds from no other source than from the pro- 
tection of God. We may be exposed to a thousand deaths, 
but this one consideration ought abundantly to suffice us, 
that we are covered and defended by the hand of God. And 
this will be the case, if the vain shadows of this world do not 
so ile us as to excite us to take shelter under them. 
We ought also particularly to notice the statement, that those 
who trust in the Lord love his name. The remembrance of 
God must be sweet to us, and fill our hearts with joy, or 
rather ravish us with love to him, after he has caused us to 
taste of his goodness ; as, on the other hand, all unbelievers 
- wish the name of God to be buried, and shun the remem- 
brance of him with horror. 


12. For thou, O Jehovah, wilt bless the righteous. The Psalm- 
ist here confirms the concluding sentence of the preceding 
verse, namely, that all the servants of God in common will 
take support to their faith from what he had experienced, 
for he would have us from one example to form our judg- 
ment of the immutability and perpetuity of God’s grace to- 
wards all the godly. Again, by this he teaches us that there 
is no true and right joy but that which is derived from the 
sense of God’s fatherly love. The word, ¢o dless, in Hebrew, 
(when we speak of this as the act of men,) signifies to wish 
happiness and prosperity to any one, and to pray for him ;} 


wake” souhaitter bien et prosperite a quelqu’un et prier pour 


64 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM V, 


but when it is spoken of as the act of God, it signifies the same _ 
thing as to prosper a man, or to enrich him abundantly with all 
good things; for since the favour of God is efficacious, his 
blessing of itself produces an abundance of every good thing. 
The name righteous is not restricted to any one man, but 
signifies in general all the servants of God. Those, how- 
ever, who are called righteous in Scripture, are not so called 
on account of the merit of their works, but because they 
aspire after righteousness; for after God has received them 
into his favour, by not imputing their sins to them, he 
accepts their upright endeavours for perfect righteousness. 
What follows is of the same import as the preceding clause, 
Thou wilt crown them with thy free favour, or good will, as 
with a shield. The Psalmist’s meaning is, that the faithful 
shall be completély defended on all sides, since he will, in no 
case, withhold from them his grace, which is to them an 
invincible fortress, and brings along with it certain safety. 
The word, to crown, which the Psalmist employs, often 
denotes in Hebrew, ornament or glory ; but as there is added 
the similitude of a shield, I have no doubt but he uses it 
metaphorically for, to fortify, or to compass about.1 The 
meaning, therefore, is, that however great and various may 
be the dangers which besiege the righteous, they shall, not- 
withstanding, escape, and be saved, because God is fayour- 
able to them. 


1 Bishop Horsley thinks mx, katsinah, as with a shield, should be con- 
strued with xs, ratson, favour or good will, and translates the words 
thus: ‘ Like a shield of good will, thou wilt stand guard around him.” 
The reading of the Repeusee is the same: “Q¢ érAw eddoxses, as with a 
shield of good will. e word m3, tsinah, means that kind of shield, from 
the middle of which there arose a large boss, surmounted by a dagger, 
and which was highly useful both as a defensive and an offensive weapon 
in ancient warfare, 





PSALM VI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 65 


PSALM VI. 


Dayid, being afflicted by the hand of God, acknowledges that he had 
provoked the Divine wrath by his sins, and, therefore, in order to ob- 
tain relief, he prays for forgiveness. At the same time, he regrets, 
that by being faken out of the world, he would be deprived of an 
opportunity of praising God. Then, having obtained confidence, he 
celebrates the grace of God, and directs his discourse to his enemies, 
who triumphed over his calamities. 


| To the chief musician on Neginoth, upon the eighth. A song of David. 


The name of Song shows that David composed this psalm, in which he 
describes the passionate workings of his grief in the time of his trouble, 
after he had obtained deliverance from the evils which he deplores. 
What the kind of chastisement was of which he speaks is uncertain. 
Those who restrict it to bodily disease do not adduce in support of their 
opinion any argument of sufficient weight. They insist on the word 
Sew, amal, which occurs in verse third, where he says, ‘ I am weak,” 
which indeed signifies to be sick ; but it is more probable that it is here 
used metaphorically. They allege that Hezekiah, after his recovery 
from sickness, sung in the same strains as are here recorded, concerning 
death. But in Psalm cxvi., where no mention is made of bodily disease, 
the same complaint is uttered by the Psalmist in the name of the whole 
Church. We can, indeed, gather from these words that the life of David 
was in the utmost danger, but it may have been some other kind of 
affliction than bodily sickness under which he laboured. We may, there- 
fore, adopt this as the more certain interpretation, that he had been 
Stricken by some severe calamity, or that some punishment had been 
inflicted upon him, which presented to his view on every side only the 
shadow of death. It ought also to be considered, that this psalm was not 
composed at the very time when he presented to God the prayers 
recorded in it ; but that the prayers which he had meditated and uttered 
in the midst of his dangers and sadness were, after he had obtained 
respite, committed to writing. This explains why he joins the sorrow 
with which he certainly had struggled for a time with the joy which he 
afterwards experienced. With respect to the word eighth, as we have 
before said that mx, Neginoth, signifies a musical instrument, I do not 
know whether it would be correct to say, that it was a harp of eight 
strings. I am rather inclined to the opinion that it refers to the tune, 
and points out the particular kind of music to which the psalm was to 
be sung. However, in a matter so obscure and of so little importance, 
I leave every one at liberty to form his own conjecture. 


1 Sheminith, or the eighth, “is thought to be the shrillest or loftiest note, 
VOL, I, E 


66 COMMENTARY UPON . PSALM YI. 


1. Jehovah, rebuke me not in thine anger, and chastise me not in 
thine indignation. 


Tue calamity which David now experienced had, perhaps, 
been inflicted by men, but he wisely considers that he has 
to deal with God. Those persons are very unsuitably exer- 
cised under their afflictions who do not immediately take a 
near and a steady view of their sins, in order thereby to 
produce the conviction that they have deserved the wrath 
of God. And yet we see how thoughtless and insensible 
almost all men are on this subject; for while they ery out 
that they are afflicted and miserable, scarcely one among a 
hundred looks to the hand which strikes. From whatever 
quarter, therefore, our afflictions come, let us learn to turn 
our thoughts instantly to God, and to acknowledge him as 
the Judge who summons us as guilty before his tribunal, 
since we, of our own accord, do not anticipate his judgment. 
But as men, when they are compelled to feel that God is 
angry with them, often indulge in complaints full of impiety, 
rather than find fault with themselves and their own sins, it 
is to be particularly noticed that David does not simply 
ascribe to God the afflictions under which he is now suffering, 
but acknowledges them to be the just recompense of his 
sins. He does not take God to task as if he had been an 
enemy, treating him with cruelty without any just cause; 
but yielding to him the right of rebuking and chastening, he 
desires and prays only that bounds may be set to the punish- 
ment inflicted on him. By this he declares God to be a just 
Judge in taking vengeance on the sins of men.' But as soon 
as he has confessed that he is justly chastised, he earnestly 
beseeches God not to deal with him in strict justice, or 
according to the utmost rigour of the law. He does not 
altogether refuse punishment, for that would be unreasonable ; 
and to be without it, he judged would be more hurtful than 


as Alomoth is the lowest ; of which see 1 Chron. xv. 20, 21. But all this 
is only conjecture ; and the Jews themselves have no certain knowledge 
of their ancient music, and of the signification of the terms belonging to 
it.”—Poole’s Annotations. 

1“ En faisant vengence des forfaits des hommes.”—Fr. 





PSALM VI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 67 


beneficial to him: but what he is afraid of is the wrath of 
God, which threatens sinners with ruin and perdition. To 
anger and indignation David tacitly opposes fatherly and 
gentle chastisement, and this last he was willing to bear. We 
have a similar contrast in the words of Jeremiah, (ch. x. 24,) 
“ O Lord,” says he, “correct me, but with judgment ; not in 
thine anger.” God is, indeed, said to be angry with sinners 
whenever he inflicts punishment upon them, but not in the 
proper and strict sense, inasmuch as he not only mingles 
with it some of the sweetness of his grace to mitigate 
their sorrow, but also shows himself favourable to them, 
in moderating their punishment, and in mercifully drawing 
back his hand. But, as we must necessarily be stricken 
with terror whenever he shows himself the avenger of wicked- 
ness, it is not without cause that David, according to the 
sense of the flesh, is afraid of his anger and indignation. 
The meaning therefore is this: I indeed confess, O Lord, that 
I deserve to be destroyed and brought to nought; but as I 
would be unable to endure the severity of thy wrath, deal 
not with me according to my deserts, but rather pardon my 
sins, by which I have provoked thine anger against me. As 
often, then, as we are pressed down by adversity, let us 
learn, from the example of David, to have recourse to this 
remedy, that we may be brought into a state of peace with 
God; for it is not to be expected that it can be well or 
prosperous with us if we are not interested in his favour. 
Whence it follows, that we shall never be without a load of 
evils, until he forgive us our sins. 


2. Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah, for Iam weak ; heal ine, 
O Jehovah, for my bones are afraid. 
3. And my soul is exceedingly troubled ;' and thou, O Jehovah, 


how long ?? 
2. Have mercy upon me. As he earnestly calls upon God 


1 Or greatly terrified. This is a very correct rendering of the origi 
words 3x2 n>m3, nibhalah meod ; and they are very like those u by 
the Saviour in his agony, ‘‘ My soul isexceeding sorrowful, even unto death.” 

2 “ Mais toy, Seigneur, jusques & quand m’afiligeras- -tu?”—Fr, “ But 
ves O Lord, ow fen uit thou afflict me ?” 


68 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VI. 


to be merciful to him, it is from this the more clearly manifest, 
that by the terms anger and indignation he did not mean 
cruelty or undue severity, but only such judgment as God 
executes upon the reprobate, whom he does not spare in 
mercy as he does his own children. If he had complained 
of being unjustly and too severely punished, he would now 
have only added something to this effect: Restrain thyself, 
that in punishing me thou mayest not exceed the measure of 
_my offence. In betaking himself, therefore, to the merey 
of God alone, he shows that he desires nothing else than not 
to be dealt with according to strict justice, or as he deserved. 
In order to induce God to exercise his forgiving mercy 
towards him, he declares that he is ready to fail: Have 
mercy upon me, O Jehovah, for I am weak. As I have said 
before, he calls himself weak, not because he was sick, but 
because he was cast down and broken by what had now 
befallen him. And as we know that the design of God 
in inflicting punishment upon us, is to humble us; so, when- 
ever we are subdued under his rod, the gate is opened for 
his mercy to come to us. Besides, since it is his peculiar 
office to heal the diseased, to raise up the fallen, to support 
the weak, and, finally, to give life to the dead; this, of it- 
self, is a sufficient reason why we should seek his favour, that 
we are sinking under our afflictions. 

After David has protested that he placed his hope of sal- 
vation in the mercy of God alone, and has sorrowfully 
set forth how much he is abased, he subjoins the effect 
which this had in impairing his bodily health, and prays for 
the restoration of this blessing: Heal me, O Jehovah. And 
this is the order which we must observe, that we may know 
that all the blessings which we ask from God flow from the 
fountain of his free goodness, and that we are then, and then 
only, delivered from calamities and chastisements,' when he 
has had mercy upon us.—For my bones are afraid. This con- 
firms what I have just now observed, namely, that, from the 
very grievousness of his afflictions, he entertained the hope of 
some relief; for God, the more he sees the wretched oppressed 


1 « Des maux et chastiemens,”—/Fr. 








PSALM VI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 69 


and almost overwhelmed, is just so much the more ready 
to succour them. He attributes fear to his bones, not because 
they are endued with feeling, but because the vehemence of 
his grief was such that it affected his whole body. He 
does not speak of his flesh, which is the more tender and 
susceptible part of the corporeal system, but he mentions 
his bones, thereby intimating that thé strongest parts of his 
frame were made to tremble for fear. He next assigns the 
cause of this by saying, And my soul is greatly afraid. The 
connective particle and, in my judgment, has here the mean- 
ing of the causal particle for, as if he had said, So severe 
and violent is the inward anguish of my heart, that it affects 
and impairs the strength of every part of my body. I do not 
approve of the opinion which here takes soul for Life, nor does 
it suit the scope of the passage. 


3. And thou, O Jehovah, how long? This elliptical form of 
expression serves to express more strongly the vehemence of 
grief, which not only holds the minds of men bound up, 
but likewise their tongues, breaking and cutting short their 
speech in the middle of the sentence. The meaning, how- 
ever, in this abrupt expression is doubtful. Some, to com- 
plete the sentence, supply the words, Wilt thou afflict me, or 
continue to chasten me? Others read, How long wilt thou delay 
thy mercy? But what is stated in the next verse shows, that 
this second sense is the more probable, for he there prays to 
the Lord to look upon him with an eye of favour and com- 
passion. He, therefore, complains that God has now for- 
saken him, or has no regard to him, just as God seems to be 
far off from us whenever his assistance or grace does not 
actually manifest itself in our behalf. God, in his compas- 
sion towards us, permits us to pray to him to make haste to 
succour us; but when we have freely complained of his 
long delay, that our prayers or sorrow, on this account, may 
not pass beyond bounds, we must submit our case entirely 
to his will, and not wish him to make greater haste than 

- shall seem good to him. 


70 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VI. 


4, Return, O Lord, deliver my soul; save me for thy mercy’s 
sake. 

5. For in death there is no remembrance of thee; and in the 
grave who shall acknowledge thee ?* 


4. Return, O Lord. In the preceding verses the Psalmist 
bewailed the absence of God, and now he earnestly requests 
the tokens of his presence; for our happiness consists in 
this, that we are the objects of the Divine regard, but 
we think he is alienated from us, if he does not give 
us some substantial evidence of his care for us. That 
David was at this time in the utmost peril, we gather from 
these words, in which he prays both for the deliverance 
of his soul, as it were, from the jaws of death, and for his 
restoration to a state of safety. Yet no mention is made of 
any bodily disease ; and, therefore, I give no judgment with 
respect to the kind of his affliction. David, again, confirms 
what he had touched upon in the second verse concerning the 
mercy of God, namely, that this is the only quarter from 
which he hopes for deliverance: Save me for thy mercy’s 
sake. Men will never find a remedy for their miseries until, 
forgetting their own merits, by trusting to which they only 
deceive themselves, they have learned to betake themselves 
to the free merey of God. 


5. For in death there is no remembrance of thee. After 
God has bestowed all things freely upon us, he requires no- 
thing in return but a grateful remembrance of his benefits. 
To this gratitude reference is made when David says, that 
there will be no remembrance of God in death, nor any celebra- 
tion of his praise in the grave. His meaning is, that if, by 
the grace of God, he shall be delivered from death, he will 
be grateful for it, and keep it in remembrance. And he 
laments, that if he should be removed out of the world, he 
would be deprived of the power and opportunity of manifest- 
ing his gratitude, since in that case he would no longer 
mingle in the society of men, there to commend or celebrate 

1 “ Car il n’est fait nulle mention de toy en la mort: qui est-ce qui 


te louéra au sepulchre ?”—Fr. “ For there is no mention made of thee in 
death ; and who shall praise thee in the grave ?” 





PSALM VI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 71 


the name of God. From this passage some conclude, that 
the dead have no feeling, and that it is wholly extinct in 
them; but this is a rash and unwarranted inference, for no- 
thing is here treated of but the mutual celebration of the grace 
of God, in which men engage while they continue in the land 
of the living. We know that we are placed on the earth to 
praise God with one mind and one mouth, and that this is the 
end of our life. Death, it is true, puts an end to such praises ; 
but it does not follow from this, that the souls of the faithful, 
when divested of their bodies, are deprived of understand- 
ing, or touched with no affection towards God. It is also 
_to be considered, that, on the present occasion, David dread- 
_ed the judgment of God if death should befall him, and this 
made him dumb as to singing the praises of God. It is only 
the goodness of God sensibly experienced by us which opens 
our mouth to celebrate his praise; and whenever, there- 
fore, joy and gladness are taken away, praises also must 
cease. It is not then wonderful if the wrath of God, which 
overwhelms us with the fear of eternal destruction, is said 
to extinguish in us the praises of God. 

From this passage, we are furnished with the solution of 
another question, why David so greatly dreaded death, as if 
there had been nothing to hope for beyond this world. 
Learned men reckon up three causes why the fathers under 
the law were so much kept in bondage by the fear of death. 
The first is, because the grace of God, not being then made 
manifest by the coming of Christ, the promises, which were 
obscure, gave them only a slight acquaintance with the life 
tocome. The second is, because the present life, in which 
God deals with us as a Father, is of itself desirable. 
And the third, because they were afraid lest, after their 
decease, some change to the worse might take place in reli- 
gion. But to me these reasons do not appear to be suffi- 
ciently solid. David’s mind was not always occupied by 
the fear he now felt; and when he came to die, being full 
of days and weary of this life, he calmly yielded up his soul 
into the bosom of God. The second reason is equally appli- 
cable to us at the present day, as it was to the ancient 
fathers, inasmuch as God’s fatherly love shines forth towards 


72 renimeleaanl UPON PSALM VIL 


us also even in this life, and with much more illustrious 
proofs than under the former dispensation. But, as I have 
just observed, I consider this complaint of David as includ- 
ing something different, namely, that feeling the hand of 
God to be against him, and knowing his hatred of sin," he is 
overwhelmed with fear and involved in the deepest distress. 
The same may also be said of Hezekiah, inasmuch as he did 
not simply pray for deliverance from death, but from the wrath 
of God, which he felt to be very awful, (Isaiah xxxviii. 3.) 


6. 1 have become wearied in my groaning ; I make my bed to 
swim’ every night ; I water my couch with my tears. 

7. Mine eye hath waxed dim for vexation ; it hath waxed old 
among my persecutors, 


These forms of expression are hyperbolical, but it must 
not be imagined that David, after the manner of poets, 
exaggerates his sorrow; but he declares truly and simply 
how severe and bitter it had been. It should always be 
kept in mind, that his affliction did not proceed so much 
from his having been severely wounded with bodily distress ; 
but regarding God as greatly displeased with him, he saw, 
as it were, hell open to receive him; and the mental distress 
which this produces exceeds all other sorrows. Indeed, the 
more sincerely a man is devoted to God, he is just so much 
the more severely disquieted by the sense of his wrath; and 
hence it is that holy persons, who were otherwise endued 
with uncommon fortitude, have showed in this respect the 
greatest softness and want of resolution. And nothing 
prevents us at this day from experiencing in ourselves what 
David describes concerning himself but the stupidity of our 
flesh. Those who have experienced, even in a moderate 
degree, what it is to contend with the fear of eternal death, 
will be satisfied that there is nothing extravagant in these 


1“ Ascayoir que sentant la main de Dieu contraire, veu qu’il l’adver- 
tissoit de sa vengence rs le 3 oe ere 
“ Je e ma couche.”—F'r, “* I soak my couch.” “ Ou, jefa 
Fr. merge toe Tests to ea on iad 
“Tl ne faut wa re toutesfois que David amplifie sa tristesse & la 
aa des Poétes.”. ,* 





PSALM VI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 73 


words. Let us, therefore, know that here David is repre- 
sented to us as being afflicted with the terrors of his con- 
science,' and feeling within him torment of no ordinary kind, 
but such as made him almost faint away, and lie as if dead. 
With respect to the words, he says, Mine eye hath waxed 
dim ; for grief of mind easily makes its way to the eyes, 
and from them very distinctly shows itself. As the word 
= athak, which I have translated it hath wazed old, some- 
imes signifies to depart from one’s place, some expound it, 
that the goodness of his eyesight was lost, and his sight, as it 
were, had vanished. Others understand by it that his eyes 
were hidden by the swelling which proceeds from weeping. 
The first opinion, however, according to which David com- 
plains of his eyes failing him, as it were, through old age, 
appears to me the more simple. As to what he adds, every 
night, we learn from it that he was almost wholly wasted 
away with protracted sorrow, and yet all the while never 
ceased from praying to God. 


8. Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity ; for the Lord 
hath heard the voice of my weeping. 
9. The Lord hath heard my supplication ; the Lord will re- 
ceive” my prayer. 
10, Let all mine enemies be put to shame and greatly confounded ; 
let them turn back, and be ashamed suddenly.* 


After David has disburdened his griefs and troubles into 
the bosom of God, he now, as it were, assumes a new 
character. And, without doubt, he had been afflicted with 
long-continued despondency of spirit before he could re- 
cover himself, and attain to such a degree of assurance as he 
here displays ;* for we have already seen that he had spent 
many nights in continual weeping. Now, the more he had 
been distressed and wearied by the long delay of his deliver- 


1 “ Tes frayeurs de la morte.”—Fr. ‘ With the terrors of death.” 

2 “ A receu.”—Fr. “‘ Hath received.” This is the rendering which is 
adopted in all the ancient versions, although the Hebrew verb is in the 
future tense. 

% “En un moment.”—Fr. “ In a moment.” 

4 “ Avant que pouvoir se relever et venir & sentir telle asseurance qu'il 
monstre yci.”—Fr. 


74 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VI. 


ance, with so much the more alacrity does he stir up himself 
to sing of victory. Directing his discourse against his 
adversaries, he represents it as not the least part of his 
temptation, that ungodly men triumphed over him, and de- 
rided him as lost, and in a hopeless condition ; for we know 
with what insolence their pride and cruelty magnify them- 
selves against the children of God, when they see them 
oppressed under the cross. And to this Satan moves them, 
in order to drive the faithful to despair, when they see their 
hope made the subject of mockery. This passage teaches 
us, that the grace of God is the only light of life to the 
godly ; and that, as soon as He has manifested some token 
of his anger, they are not only greatly afraid, but also, as it 
were, plunged into the darkness of death ; while, on the other 
hand, as soon as they discover anew that God is merciful to 
them, they are immediately restored to life. David, it is to 
be noticed, repeats three times that his prayers were heard, 
by which he testifies that he ascribes his deliverance to God, 
and confirms himself in this confidence, that he had not 
betaken himself to God in vain. And if we would receive 
any fruit from our prayers, we must believe that God’s ears 
have not been shut against them. By the word weeping,' he ~ 
not only indicates vehemence and earnestness, but also inti- 
mates that he had been wholly occupied in mourning and 
sorrowful lamentations. The confidence and security which 
David takes to himself from the favour of God ought also to 
be noticed. From this, we are taught that there is nothing 
in the whole world, whatever it may be, and whatever oppo- 
sition it may make to us,? which we may not despise, if we 
are fully persuaded of our being beloved by God; and by 
this also we understand what his fatherly love can do for us. 
By the adverb suddenly, he signifies, that when there is appa- 
rently no means of delivering the faithful from affliction, 
and when all seems desperate or hopeless, then they are 


then he adds, quoting from Roberts’ Orient. Illustr. of the 
“ Silent grief is not much known in the East. Hence, when the people speak 
of lamentation, they say, Have I not heard the voice of his 

2 “ Qu’il n’y a rien en tout le monde qui se dresse contre nous.” —/r. 


1“ The voice of my weeping, my loud weeping,” says he Roored testo 
he) 
” 








PSALM VII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 75 


delivered by the power of God contrary to all expectation. 
When God suddenly changes men’s afflicted condition into 
one of joy and happiness, he thereby manifests more illus- 
triously his power, and makes it appear the more wonderful. 


PSALM VIL. 


Dayid, loaded with unjust calumny, calls upon God to be his advo- 
cate and defender, and commits his innocence to the Divine pro- 
tection. In the first place, he protests that his conscience did not 
accuse him of the wickedness laid to his charge. Secondly, he shows 
how greatly it concerns the glory of God that he should execute judg- 
ment against the ungodly. Thirdly, to inspire his mind with confi- 
dence, he seriously reflects upon the goodness and righteousness of 
God, and sets before him the divine promises. Lastly, as if he had 
obtained the desire of his heart, he derides the folly and the vain 
attempts of his enemies; or rather, depending upon the aid of God, 
he assures himself that all their endeavours against him shall turn to 
their own destruction. 


§ Shiggaion of David, which he sung unto Jehovah, upon the words of 
Cush the Benjamite. 


With respect to the word Shiggaion, the Jewish interpreters are not 
agreed. Some understand it to mean a musical instrument. To others 
it seems to be a tune to which a song is set. Others suppose it to have 
been the beginning of a common song, to the tune of which David 
wished this psalm to be sung. Others translate the Hebrew word, 
delight, or rejoicing. The second opinion appears to me the most pro- 
bable, namely, that it was some kind of melody or song, as if one should 
term it Sapphic or Phaleucian verse.?, But I do not contend about a 
matter of so small importance. Again, the psalm is said to have been 
composed upon the words of Cush. I cannot subscribe to the interpreta- 
tion, (although it is the commonly received one,) that words here mean 
affairs, or business. To put word for a matter, or an affair, is, Tallow, a 
common form of speech among the Jews; but as David a little after de- 


1 “ Delectation, ou Resjouissance.”—Fr. 

2 “ Ascavoir que c’a este une espece de melodie ou certain chant, comme 
nous scavons que selon la diversite des nations et langues, il y a diverses 
mesures de vers.” —Fr. “‘ Namely, that it was a kindof tune or song, as we 
know, that, according to the diversity of nations and languages, there are 
different measures of verse.” 


76 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VII. 
clares that he was falsely accused of some crime, I doubt not but he 
here speaks of the accusation or calumny itself, of which, as I judge, 
Cush, some one of Saul’s kindred, was the author, or, at least, the 
instrument who preferred and circulated it. The opinion of some who 
say that Saul is here spoken of under a fictitious name, is not supported 
by any argument of sufficient weight. According to them, David 
avoided calling him by his own name, in order to spare the royal dignity. 
David, I admit, had great reverence for the holy anointing; but as he 
expressly names Saul in other places where he reprehends him not less 
severely, and paints him in colours no less black than he does in this 
psalm, why should he suppress his name here, and not in these pass- 
ages? In my opinion, therefore, he here expresses by his proper name, 
and without figure, a wicked accuser, who had excited hatred against 
him by falsely charging him with some crime, and who had either been 
bribed by the king to do this, or, currying the royal favour, had calum- 
niated David of his own accord; for David, we know, was very much 
slandered, as if he had been ungrateful and treacherous towards the 
king, his father-in-law. Saul, indeed, belonged to the tribe of Benjamin. 
We do not, however, think that he is the person here mentioned, but 
that it was one of Saul’s relations, one who belonged to the same tribe 
with him, who falsely accused David. 


1. O Jehovah, my God, in thee do I trust : save me from all them 
that persecute me, and deliver me. 

2. Lest HE seize upon my soul as a lion, and tear it in pieces, 
while there is none to deliver it. 


At the commencement of the psalm, David speaks of 
having many enemies, and in the second verse he specifies 
some one in the singular number. And certainly, since the 
minds of all men were inflamed against him, he had very 
good reason for praying to be delivered from all his perse- 
cutors. But as the wicked cruelty of the king, like a fire- 
brand, had kindled against him, though an innocent person, 
the hatred of the whole people, he had good reason also for 
turning his pen particularly against him. Thus, in the first 
verse, he describes the true character of his own circum- 
stances—he was a persecuted man; and, in the second 
verse, the fountain or cause of the calamity he was enduring. 
There is great emphasis in these words which he uses in the 
beginning of the psalm, O Jehovah, my God, in thee do I 
trust. The verb, it is true, is in the past tense in the — 
Hebrew; and, therefore, if literally translated, the reading 





PSALM VII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 77 


would be, In thee have I trusted; but as the Hebrews often 
take one tense for another,' I prefer to translate it in the 
present, In thee I do trust, especially since it is abundantly 
evident that a continued act, as it is termed, is denoted. 
David does not boast of a confidence in God, from which he 
had now fallen, but of a confidence which he constantly 
entertained in his afflictions. And this is a genuine and an 
undoubted proof of our faith, when, being visited with ad- 
versity, we, notwithstanding, persevere in cherishing and 
exercising hope in God. From this passage, we also learn 
that the gate of mercy is shut against our prayers if the key 
of faith do not open it for us. Nor does he use superfluous 
language when he calls Jehovah his own God; for by setting 
up this as a bulwark before him, he beats back the waves of 
temptations, that they may not overwhelm his faith. In the 
second yerse, by the figure of a lion, he represents in a stronger 
light the cruelty of Saul, as an argument to induce God to 
grant him assistance, even as he ascribes it to Him as his pecu- 
liar province to rescue his poor sheep from the jaws of wolves. 


3. O Jehovah, my God, if I have done this thing, if there be 
iniquity in my hands : 

4. If lhave rewarded evil to him that was at peace with me, and 
have not delivered him that persecuted me without cause : 

5. Let the enemy pursue my soul and take it ; and let him throw 
down my life to the ground,? and hold down® my glory in the 
dust. Selah. 


3. O Jehovah, my God. Here David, to induce God to 
show him favour, protests that he is molested unjustly, and 
without being guilty of any crime. To give his protestation 
the greater weight, he uses an imprecation. If he has done 
any wrong, he declares his readiness to bear the blame; yea, 
he offers to endure the severest punishment, if he is not 
ultogether innocent of the crime of which all men thought 
him almost convicted. And by entreating God to succour 


1 “Mais pource que les Hebrieux prenent souvent un temps pour 
Vautre.”—Fr. 

a ** Et foulle ma vie en terre.”—Fr. “ And let him trample my life on 
- § “ Et qu'il mette.”—Fr, “ And lay.” 


q 


78 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VII. 


him upon no other condition than this, that his integrity 
should upon trial be found to be untarnished, he teaches us, 
by his example, that as often as we have recourse to God, 
we must make it our first care to be well assured in our 
own consciences with respect to the righteousness of our 
cause; for we do him great wrong if we wish to engage him 
as the advocate and defender of a bad cause. The pronoun 
this shows that he speaks of a thing which was generally 
known; whence we may conclude, that the slander which 
had been raised by Cush was spread far and wide. And as 
David was condemned, by the false reports and unrighteous 
judgments which men advanced against him, and saw no 
remedy on earth, he betakes himself to the judgment-seat of 
God, and contents himself with maintaining his innocence 
before the heavenly Judge ; an example which all the godly 
should imitate, in order that, in opposition to the slanderous 
reports which are spread against them, they may rest satis- 
fied with the judgment of God alone. He next declares 
more distinctly, that he had committed no crime. And in 
the fourth verse, he mentions two particulars in self-vindica- 


tion; first, That he had done no wrong to any one; and, — 


secondly, That he had rather endeavoured to do good to 
his enemies, by whom notwithstanding he had been injured 
without any just cause. I, therefore, explain the fourth 
verse thus: If I have wronged any man that was at peace 
with me, and have not rather succoured the unworthy, who 
persecuted me without a cause, &c. Since David was hated 
of almost all men, as if ambition to reign had impelled him 
perfidiously to rise up in rebellion against Saul, and to lay 
snares for the monarch to whom he was bound by the oath 
of allegiance,! in the first part of the verse, he clears himself 
of such a foul slander. The reason, perhaps, why he calls 
Saul him that was at peace with him is, that on account of his 
royal dignity his person ought to be sacred, and secure from 
danger,? so that it should be unlawful to make any hostile 


1 Apres luy avoir fait le serment.”—Fr. “ After having sworn the 
oath of allegiance to him.” 

* “ Pource que le nom et titre royal luy devoit estre une sauvegarde et 
le tenir en seurete.”—Fr. “ Because the royal name and title ought to be 
to him a safeguard, and secure the safety of his person.” 


"' 
1 


é 


| 





- ‘ 
y P 


PSALM VII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 79 


attempt against him. This phrase, however, may be under- 
stood generally, as if he had said, No one who has meekly 

_ restrained himself from injuring me, and has conducted him- 
self kindly towards me, can with truth complain that I have 
ever injured him in a single instance. And yet it was the 
general persuasion, that David, in the midst of peace, had 
stirred up great confusion, and caused war. From this it is 
just so much the more manifest, that David, provided he 
enjoyed the approbation of God, was contented with the 
consolation arising from this, though he should have comfort 
from no other source. 

In the second clause of the fourth verse, he proceeds far- 
ther, and states, that he had been a friend, not only to the 
good, but also to the bad, and had not only restrained himself 
from all revenge, but had even succoured his enemies, by whom 
he had been deeply and cruelly injured. It would certainly 
not be very illustrious virtue to love the good and peaceable, 
unless there were joined to this self-government and gentle- 
ness in patiently bearing with the bad. But when a man 
not only keeps himself from revenging the injuries which he 
has received, but endeavours to overcome evil by doing 
good, he manifests one of the graces of a renewed and sancti- 

~ fied nature, and in this way proves himself to be one of the 
children of God; for such meekness proceeds only from the 
Spirit of adoption. With respect to the words : as the Hebrew 
word , chalats, which I have translated to deliver, signi- 
fies to divide and to separate, some, to prevent the necessity of 
supplying any word to make out the sense,’ thus explain the 
passage, If I have withdrawn myself from my persecutors, in 
order not to succour them. ‘The other interpretation, however, 
according to which the verb is rendered to deliver or rescue 
from danger, is more generally received ; because the phrase, 
to separate or set aside, is applied to those things which we 
wish to place in safety. And thus the negative word not 
must be supplied, an omission which we will find not unfre- 
quently occurring in The Psalms. 


1 In the clause, ‘‘ And have nor delivered him that persecuted me with- 
out cause,” the word not is a supplement, there being nothing for it in the 
Hebrew text. 


80 COMMENTARY UPON’ PSALM VII. 


- 


5. Let mine enemy pursue. It is a striking proof of the 
great confidence which David had in his own integrity, when 
he is willing to endure any kind of punishment, however 
dreadful, provided he should be found guilty of any crime. 
If we could bring a good conscience like this before God, 
his hand would be more quickly stretched forth to afford us 
immediate assistance. But as it often happens that those 
who molest us have been provoked by us, or that we burn 
with the desire of revenge when offended, we are unworthy 
of receiving succour from God; yea, our own impatience 


shuts the gate against our prayers. In the first place, David ~ 


is prepared to be given over to the will of his enemies, that 
they may seize his life, and throw it down to the ground ; and 
then to be publicly exhibited as an object of their mockery, 
so that, even after he is dead, he may lie under eternal dis- 
grace. Some think that the word )35, kebod, which we 
have translated glory, is here to be taken for life, and thus 
there will be three words, soul, life, glory, signifying the 
same thing. But it appears to me, that the meaning of the 
passage will be fuller if we refer the word glory to his me- 
mory, or his good name, as if he had said, Let my enemy 
not only destroy me, but, after having put me to death, 
let him speak of me in the most reproachful terms, so that 
my name may be buried in mire or filth. 


6. Arise, O Jehovah, in thine anger, lift up thyself against the 
rage of mine enemies: and awake thou for me to the 
judgment which thou hast ordained. 

7. And then the assembly of peoples [or nations] shall compass 
thee about : and on account of this, return thou on high. 

8. Jehovah shall judge the peoples, [or nations :| judge me, O 
Jehovah, according to my righteousness, and according to 
the integrity that is in me. 


6. Arise, O Jehovah. David here sets the anger of God 
in opposition to the rage of his enemies; and when we are 


1 Street's rendering is, ‘‘ And exert in my favour the judgment thou 
hast ordained.” 








a. i i i) ot 


PSALM VII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS, 81 


in similar circumstances we should act in the same manner. 
When the ungodly are inflamed against us, and cast forth 
their rage and fury to destroy us, we ought humbly to be- 
seech God to be inflamed also on his side; in other words, 
to show in truth that he has no less zeal and power to pre- 
serve us, than they have inclination to destroy us. The 
word, Arise, is taken in a figurative sense, for to ascend into a 
Judgment-seat, or rather to prepare one’s self to make resistance ; 
and it is here applied to God, because, while he delays to 
succour us, we are very apt to think him asleep. Accord- 
ingly, David also, a little after, beseeches him to awake ; for 
it seemed on the part of God something like the forgetful- 
ness of sleep to give no assistance to an individual who 
was so much afflicted and oppressed on all hands. 

In the end of the verse he shows that he asks nothing but 
what is according to the appointment of God. And this is 
the rule which ought to be observed by us in our prayers; 
we should in every thing conform our requests to the divine 
will, as John also instructs us, (1 John y. 14.) And, in- 
deed, we can never pray in faith unless we attend, in the 
first place, to what God commands, that our minds may not 
rashly and at random start aside in desiring more than we 
are permitted to desire and pray for. David, therefore, in 
order to pray aright, reposes himself on the word and pro- 
mise of God ; and the import of his exercise is this: Lord, 
Iam not led by ambition, or foolish headstrong passion, or 
depraved desire, inconsiderately to ask from thee whatever is 
pleasing to my flesh ; but it is the clear light of thy word which 
directs me, and upon it I securely depend. Since God, of his 
own good pleasure, had called him to be one day king, it be- 
longed to him to defend and maintain the rights of the man 
whom he had chosen for his servant. David’s language, there- 
fore, is the same as if he had said, “ When I was well con- 
tented with my humble condition in private life, it was thy 
pleasure to set me apart to the honourable station of being a 
king ; now, therefore, it belongs to thee to maintain this cause 
against Saul and his associates, who are using their efforts to 
defeat thy decree in making war upon me.” The Hebrew 

VOL, I. F 


82 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VII. 


word *)}, wrah, which we have rendered, awake thou,' might 
also be taken transitively for to build up, or to establish the 
right of David. The sum of the whole, however, comes to 
this, that David, trusting to the call of God, beseeches him 
to stretch forth his hand for his relief. The faithful must, 
therefore, take care not to exceed these bounds, if they desire 
to have God present with them to maintain and preserve 
them. 


7. And a congregation of peoples. Some limit this sentence 
exclusively to the people of Israel, as if David promised that, 
as soon as he should ascend the throne, he would endeavour 
to reunite together, in the pure worship of God, the people 
who before had been as it were in a state of dispersion. 
Under the reign of Saul, religion had been neglected, or 
such an unrestrained license in wickedness had prevailed, 
that few paid any regard to God. The meaning, therefore, 
according to these expositors, is this: Lord, when thou shalt 
have constituted me king, the whole people, who have so 
basely gone astray from thee,’ shall return from their wander- 
ings and disorderly courses to thee and to thy service, so that 
all shall know that thou rulest in the midst of them, and 
shall worship thee as their only King. But I am rather 
inclined to view this as language which has a respect in com- 
mon to many nations. David here speaks in high terms of 
the effects resulting from his deliverance, the report of which 
would be spread far and wide, and his words are, as if he had 
said, ‘‘ Lord, when thou shalt have put me in peaceable posses- 
sion of the kingdom, this will not only be a benefit conferred 
on me personally, but it will be a common lesson to many 
nations, teaching them to acknowledge thy just judgment, so 
that they shall turn their eyes to thy judgment-seat.”* David 
here alludes to the practice of a people who surround their 
king, as in a circle, when he holds a solemn assembly. In the 
same sense, he adds immediately after, that God, who, for a 


1 ¢ Lequel nous avons traduit Veille.”—Fr. 

2 “Tout le peuple qui s’estoit ainsi vilenement destourné de toy.”—Fr, 

3 “Mais ce sera un enseignement commun a plusieurs peuples, pour 
recognoistre ton juste jugement, tellement qu’ils Spacoatons es yeux vers 
ton siege judicial.”—Fr. . 





PSALM VII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 83 


time, lay still and kept silence, would raise himself on high 
that not only one or two, but whole nations, might behold his 
glory: And on account of this return thou on high. There is, 
in these words, a tacit comparison, that although it might 
not be necessary to have a regard to one man alone, it is 
requisite that God should keep the world in the fear and 
reverence of his judgment. 

8. Jehovah shall judge the nations. This sentence is closely 
connected with the preceding verse. David had prayed God 
to show himself as judge to the nations ; and now he takes it 
for a certain and admitted truth, that it is the peculiar office 
of God to judge the nations: for the word put im the future 
tense, and rendered shall judge, denotes here a continued 
act; and this is the signification of the future tense in gene- 
ral sentences. Besides, he does not here speak of one nation 
only, but comprehends all nations. As he acknowledges God 
to be the judge of the whole world, he concludes a little after 
from this, that he will maintain his cause and right. And as 
often as we seem to be forsaken and oppressed, we should 
recall this truth to our remembrance, that as God is the 
governor of the world, it is as utterly impossible for him to 
abdicate his office as to deny himself. From this source 
there will flow a continual stream of comfort, although a long 
succession of calamities may press upon us: for from this 
truth we may assuredly conclude, that he will take care to 
defend our innocence. It would be contrary to every prin- 
ciple of just reasoning to suppose, that he who governs many 
nations neglects even one man. What happens with respect 
to the judges of this world can never take place with respect 
to him; he cannot, as may be the case with them, be so 
occupied about great and public affairs as to neglect, because 
unable to attend to them, the concerns of individuals. 

He again brings into view his integrity, that he may not 


1 Fry reads, “‘ And over it resume thy high tribunal.” He sup 
that the word rby, aleha, which Calvin has rendered on account of this, 
may be understood, ‘‘ concerning this affair,” and gives the following para- 

: ‘Resume thy judgment-seat, in order to investigate the cause in 
- which I have been prejudged by the adversary.” 


84 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VII. 


seem, after the example of hypocrites, to make the name of 
God a mere pretext for the better furthering of his own pur- 
poses. Since God is no respecter of persons, we cannot 
expect him to be on our side, and to favour us, if our cause is 
not good. But it is asked, how can David here boast of his 
own integrity before God, when in other places he depre- 
cates God entering into judgment with him? The answer 
is easy, and it is this : The subject here treated of is not how 
he could answer if God should demand from him an account 
of his whole life ; but, comparing himself with his enemies, 
he maintains, and not without cause, that, in respect of them, 
he was righteous. But when each saint passes under the 
review of God’s judgment, and his own character is tried upon 
its own merits, the matter is very different, for then the only 
sanctuary to which he can betake himself for safety, is the 
mercy of God. 


9. Let the malice of the wicked come to an end, I beseech thee ; 
and direct thou the righteous : for God, who is righteous, 
proves [or searches] the hearts and the reins. 

10. My defence [or shield] is in God, who saves the upright in 
heart. 
11. God judgeth the righteous, and him who despiseth God, daily. 


9. Let the malice of the wicked come to an end, I beseech thee. 
David, in the first place, prays that God would restrain the 
malice of his enemies, and bring it to an end; from which it 
follows, that his affliction had been of long duration. Others 
suppose that this is rather a dreadful imprecation, and they 
explain the Hebrew word “53, gamar, somewhat differently. 
Instead of rendering it to cease, and to come to an end, as I have 
done, they understand it to make to cease, which is equivalent 
to destroy or to consume.’ Thus, according to them, David 
wishes that God would cause the mischief which the wicked 
devise to fall upon their own heads: Let the wickedness of the 
wicked consume them. But, in my opinion, the former inter- 


1“ Les autres estiment plustost que ce soit une vehemente imprecation, 
et exposent ce mot Hebrieu un peu autrement. Car en lieu que nous le 
traduisons Cesser et Prendre fin, ils le prenent pour Faire cesser, qui est 
Destruire et Consumer.”—Fr. 





— 


PSALM VII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 85 


pretation is the more simple, namely, that David beseeches 
God to bring his troubles to a termination. Accordingly, 
there follows immediately after the corresponding prayer, 
Direct thou the righteous, or establish him ; for it is of little 
importance which of these two readings we adopt. The 
meaning is, that God would re-establish and uphold the 
righteous, who are wrongfully oppressed, and thus make it 
evident that they are continued in their estate by the power 
of God, notwithstanding the persecution to which they are 
subjected.—For God searcheth the hearts. The Hebrew copu- 
lative is here very properly translated by the causal particle 
for, since David, without doubt, adds this clause as an argu- 
ment to enforce his prayer. He now declares, for the third 
time, that, trusting to the testimony of a good conscience, 
he comes before God with confidence ; but here he expresses 
something more than he had done before, namely, that he 
not only showed his innocence, by his external conduct, but 
had also cultivated purity in the secret affection of his heart. 
He seems to set this confidence in opposition to the insolence 
and boasting of his enemies, by whom, it is probable, such 
calumnies had been circulated among the people concerning 
him, as constrained him in his deep affliction to present his 
heart and reins to be tried by God. Perhaps, also, he speaks 
in this manner, in order to divest them of all those plausible 
but false and deceitful pretences, which they made use of for 
the purpose of deceiving men, and if they succeeded in do- 
ing this they were satisfied." He shows that, although they 
might triumph before the world, and receive the applause 
of the multitude, they, nevertheless, gained nothing, inas- 
much as they would, by and by, have to make their appear- 
ance before the judgment-seat of God, where the question 
would not be, What were their titles? or, What was the 
splendour of their actions? but how it stood as to the purity 
of their hearts. 


10. My shield. It is not wonderful that David often 


2 “Tl se a pest faire aussi qu'il parle ainsi pour oster toutes ces belles 
ien fardees dont ils se servoyent pour abuser les hommes et 
ur estoit assez.” —Fr. 


86 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VII. 


mingles meditations with his prayers, thereby to imspire 
himself with true confidence. We may go to God in prayer 
with great alacrity; but our fervour, if it does not gather 
new strength, either immediately fails or begins to languish. 
David, therefore, in order to continue in prayer with the 
same ardour of devotion and affection with which he com- 
menced, brings to his recollection some of the most common 
truths of religion, and by this means fosters and invigorates 
his faith. He declares, that as God saves the upright in heart, 
he is perfectly safe under his protection. "Whence it follows, 
that he had the testimony of an approving conscience. 
And, as he does not simply say the righteous, but the upright 
in heart, he appears to have an eye to that inward search- 
ing of the heart and reins mentioned in the preceding verse. 


11. God judgeth the righteous, §c. Others read, God is a 
righteous Judge, and God is angry every day. The words will 
certainly admit of this sense ; but as the doctrine is fuller ac- 
cording to the first reading, I have preferred following it, as 1 
see it is more approved of by the most learned divines, and, 
besides, it is more suitable to the subject which David is now 
considering. As Saul and his accomplices had, by their calum- 
nious reports, so far succeeded in their wicked design as to 
have produced a general prejudice against David, so that he 
was condemned by almost the whole people, the holy man 
supports himself from this one consideration, that whatever 
may be the confusion of things in the world, God, notwith- 
standing, can easily discern between the righteous and the 
wicked. He, therefore, appeals from the false judgments of 
men to Him who can never be deceived. It may, however, 
be asked, How does the Psalmist represent God as judging 
every day, when we see him delaying punishment frequently 
for a long time? The sacred writings certainly most justly 
celebrate his long-suffering ; but, although he exercises pa- 
tience long, and does not immediately execute his judgments, 
yet, as no time passes, yea, not even a day, in which he does 
not furnish the clearest evidence that he discerns between 
the righteous and the wicked, notwithstanding the confusion 
of things in the world, it is certain that he never ceases to 





PSALM VII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 87 


execute the office of a judge. All who will be at the trouble 
to open their eyes to behold the government of the world, 
will distinctly see that the patience of God is very different 
from approbation or connivance. Surely, then, his own 
people will confidently betake themselves to him every day. 


12. If he turn not, he will whet his sword ; he hath bent his bow 
and made it ready.' 

13. And he hath prepared for it® the instruments of death ; he 
shall make fit his arrows for them that persecute.* 

14. Behold, he shall travail to bring forth iniquity ; he hath con- 
ceived wickedness, and he shall bring forth falsehood.‘ 


12. If he turn not. These verses are usually explained in 
two ways. The meaning is, that if David’s enemies should 
persevere in their malicious designs against him, there is 
denounced against them the vengeance which their obstinate 
wickedness deserves. Accordingly, in the second clause, 
they supply the name of God,—If he turn not, Gop will 
whet his sword ;> as if it had been said, If my enemy do not 
repent,® he shall, at length, feel that God is completely 
armed for the purpose of maintaining and defending the 
righteous. If it is understood in this sense, the third verse 


1 “Tl a ja tendu son are, et l’a dressé ascavoir pour tirer."—Fr. “ He 
hath alr bent his bow and made it ready, namely, to shoot.” The 
words in italics are supplementary, there being nothing for them in the 
Hebrew text. Calvin, in his French version, has uniformly distinguished 
supplementary words by printing them in smaller characters. 

- ® According to Calvin, the pronoun refers to bow. Fry renders it 
differently. “‘It is,” says he, ‘ literally for himself—for his use. We 
must keep in view the metaphor of the warrior preparing for action.” 

% “ Pour les bailler aux persecuteurs.”—/r. ‘* To give them to the per- 
secutors.” 

4 “ Car il a conceu meschancete, ou moleste, mais il enfantera men- 

”__Fr, ** For he hath conceived wickedness, or mischief, but he shall 


eters falsehoods.” 
5 This is the view adopted by Hengstenberg in his excellent Commen- 
tary on The Psalms. ‘ The apparently coarse manner of expression in 
our text,” says he, “‘ representing God as a warrior equipped with sword 
and bow, has besides for its foundation the coarseness of sinners, and the 
weakness of faith on the part of believers, which does not direct itself 
the visible danger with pure thoughts of God's controllable agency, 
but seeks to clothe those thoughts with flesh and blood, and regards the 
judge as standing over against the sinner, man against man, sword against 


6 “* Ne cesse de me poursuyvre.”—Fr. ‘‘ Do not cease from pursuing me.” 


88 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VII. 


is to be considered as a statement of the cause why God 
will thus equip himself with armour, namely, because the 
ungodly, in conceiving all kinds of mischief, in travailing to 
bring forth wickedness, and in at length bringing forth de- 
ceit and falsehood, directly assail God, and openly make war 
upon him. But, in my judgment, those who read these two 
verses in one continued sentence, give a more accurate 
interpretation. Iam not, however, satisfied that even they 
fully bring out the meaning of the Psalmist. David, I have 
no doubt, by relating the dreadful attempts of his enemies 
against him, intended thereby to illustrate more highly the 
grace of God; for when these malicious men, strengthened 
by powerful military forces, and abundantly provided with 
armour, furiously rushed upon him in the full expectation of 
destroying him, who would not have said that it was all 
over with him? Moreover, there is implied in the words a 
kind of irony, when he pretends to be afraid of their putting 
him to death. They mean the same thing as if he had said, 
“If my enemy do not alter his purpose, or turn his fury 
and his strength in another direction, who can preserve me 
from perishing by his hands? He has an abundant supply of 
arms, and he is endeavouring, by all methods, to accomplish 
my death.” 

But Saul is the person of whom he particularly speaks, 
and therefore he says, he hath made jit his arrows for 
the persecutors. ‘This implies, that Saul had many agents 
in readiness who would willingly put forth their utmost 
efforts in seeking to destroy David. The design of the 
prophet, therefore, was to magnify the greatness of the 
grace of God, by showing the greatness of the danger 
from which he had been delivered by him.* Moreover, 
when it is here said, if he do not return, returning does 
not signify repentance and amendment in David’s enemy, 
but only a change of will and purpose, as if he had said, 
“ Tt is in the power of my enemy to do whatever his fancy 
may suggest.”? Whence it appears the more clearly, how 


1 “ Duquel il avoit este delivré par luy.”—Fr. 
? “ Au reste, quand il est yci parlé de se retourner, ce n'est pas pour 
signifier ce que nous appelons repentance et amendement en son ennemi, 








PSALM VII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. _ 89 


wonderful the change was which suddenly followed con- 
trary all expectation. When he says that Saul had pre- 
* the instruments of death for his bow, he intimates that 
he was driving after no ordinary thing, but was fully deter- 
mined to wound to death the man whom he shot at. Some, 
referring the Hebrew word [')9)", doulekim, which we have 
rendered persecutors, to arrows, have rendered it burning,! 
because it has also this signification ;? but the translation 
which I have given is the more appropriate. David com- 
plains that he had reason to be afraid, not only of one man, 
but of a great multitude, inasmuch as Saul had armed a 
powerful body of men to pursue and persecute a poor 


fugitive. 


14. Behold, he shall travail. David has hitherto shown 
how great and formidable the danger was which was near 
him. In this verse, laughing to scorn the presumptuous and 
foolish attempts of Saul, and his magnificent preparations, he 
declares that they had failed of accomplishing their object.’ 
By the demonstrative adverb Behold, he enhances the won- 
der, inasmuch as such a result fell out, on his part altogether 
unlooked for. Behold, says he, after he has travailed to bring 

> forth wickedness, like as he had conceived mischief, at length 


mais tant seulement une volonte et deliberation diverse ; comme s’il dit 
qu'il estoit en la puissance de l’ennemi de parfaire tout ce qui luy venoit 
en la fantasie.”—Fr. 

1 Those who adopt this rendering, support it from the reading of the 
Septuagint, Vulgate, and Syriac versions, although the Chaldee version 
reads petenting sand they generally view the 12th and 13th verses as a re- 
os camectie . under the image of & warrior oedy. bo shoot his flam- 

, burning, fiery arrows, against the object to which he is opposed. “I 
on mpm, urentes, inflammatos ; the arrows of the Almighty, Cent. XXxii. 
24.) ishments of famine, the burnings of the carbuncle, and the bitter 

Schultens, (Prov. xxvi. 23.) Lightnings are also called God's 
arrows, (Psal. xviii. 15,) and represented as the artillery of heaven.”—Dr 
Kennicott’s note on this place in his Select Passages of the Old Testament. 
Hengstenberg takes the same view. His rendering is, He [that is, God] 
makes his arrows burning. “ pr, to burn. In —— it is customary to 

round the arrows burning matter, and to shoot them after being 
» 


# “TA ou nous avons mis Persecuteurs aucuns le rapportans aux fleches, 
traduissent Ardentes ; pource que le mot Hebrieu emporte aussi ceste 


signification.” — r. 
“ Disant que tout cela est allé en fumee.”—Fr. “ Saying that the 
whole ended in smoke.” 


90 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VII, 


there comes forth only empty wind and vanity, because God — 
frustrated his expectations, and destroyed all these wicked 
attempts.' Iniquity and mischief are here put for every 
kind. of violence and outrage’ which Saul intended to inflict 
upon David. Some interpreters think that the order of the 
words is inverted, because travailing to bring forth is put 
before conceiving ; but I think that the words have theirpro- 
per place if you explain them thus: Behold, he shall travail to — 

bring forth wickedness, for he hath conceived mischief; that 
is to say, as he long ago devised with himself my destruc- 
tion, so he will do his utmost to put his design into execution. 
David afterwards adds, he hath brought forth falsehood. 
This implies that Saul had been disappointed in his expecta- _ 
tion; as Isaiah, (ch. xxvi. 18,) in like manner, speaks of — 
unbelievers “ bringing forth wind,” when their success does — 
not correspond to their wicked and presumptuous attempts. — 
As often, therefore, as we see the ungodly secretly plotting — 
our ruin, let us remember that they speak falsehood to them- — 
selves ; in other words, deceive themselves, and shall fail in 
accomplishing what they devise in their hearts.’ If, how- 
ever, we do not perceive that they are disappointed in their — 
designs until they are about to be brought forth, let us not — 
be cast down, but bear it with a spirit of patient submission — 

to the will and providence of God. y 


15. He hath digged a pit, and hollowed it out ;* and he hath 
fallen into the ditch which he hath made. 7 

16. His wickedness shall return upon his own head, and his vio- — 
lence shall descend upon his own crown. 


Here David says not only that their wicked devices were | 
without success, but that, by the wonderful providence of ' 


1 “ Pource que Dieu I’a frustré de son attente et renverse toutes ces 
meschantes entreprises.”—Fr. 

2 “ Pour toutes violences et outrages.” —. 

3 « C'est a dire, se degoyvent et ne viendront & bout de ce qu’ils cou-— 
vent en leurs ceeurs.”—/*r, 

‘4 Fry, from a comparison of the Hebrew word which Calvin renders 
hollowed it out, with the cognate Arabic word, supposes that it means 
“ dug it over, so as to cover and hide it.” The imagery is taken from the — 
common method of catching lions and other wild beasts in the east, by 





PSALM VII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 91 


God, the result was the very opposite of what had been con- 
templated. He sets this forth in the first place metaphori- 
cally, by employing the figure of a pit and a ditch ; and then 
he expresses the same thing in simple terms without figure, 
declaring, that the mischief intended for others returned upon 
the head of him who had devised it. ‘There is no doubt that it 
was a common proverb among the Jews, He who hath 
digged a pit falleth into it; which they quoted when they 
meant to say, that wicked and crafty men are caught in the 
snares and traps which they have set for others, or that the 
contrivers of the ruin of others perish by their own devices.' 
There is a twofold use of this doctrine: In the first place, 
however skilled in craft our enemies may be, and whatever 
‘means of doing mischief they may have, we must neverthe- 
less look for the issue which God here promises, that they 
shall fall by their own sword. And this is not a thing which 
happens by chance; but God, by the secret direction of his 
own hand, causes the evil which they intend to bring upon 
the innocent to return upon their own heads. In the 
second place, Ifat any time we are instigated by passion to in- 
flict any injury upon our neighbours, or to commit any wicked- 
ness, let us remember this principle of retributive justice, 
which is often acted upon by the divine government, that 
those who prepare a pit for others are cast into it them- 
selves; and the effect will be, that every one, in proportion 
as he would consult his own happiness and welfare, will be 
careful to restrain himself from doing any injury, even the 
smallest, to another. 


digging pits on the spots which they were observed to vent, and 
overing thea slightly over with reeds or small branches of ts Luther's 
translation of this clause is precisely the same with that of Calvin; and, 
in his Commentary on the place, he well explains the force of the expres- 
sions of the Psalmist. ‘ See,” says he, ‘‘ how admirably he expresses the 
hot burning fury of the ungodly, not simply declaring, he has dug a pit 
but adding to this, and hollowed it out. So active and diligent are they 
to have the pit dug and the hole prepared. They every thing, they 
explore every thing, and not satisfied that they have dug a pit, they clear 
it out and make it deep, as deep as they possibly can, that they may de- 
stroy and subvert the innocent.” 

1 Tomboyent au mal qu’ils avoyent brassé.”—Fr. “ Fall into the de- 
struction which they had contrived.” 


92 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VII. 


17. I will praise Jehovah according to his righteousness ; and I _ 
will sing to the name of Jehovah, Most High. 


As the design of God in the deliverances which he vouch- 
safes to his servants is, that they may render to him in 
return the sacrifices of praise, David here promises that he 
will gratefully acknowledge the deliverance which he had 
received, and at the same time affirms that his preservation 
from death was the undoubted and manifest work of God. 
He could not, with truth, and from the heart, have ascribed 
to God the praise of his deliverance, if he had not been fully 
persuaded that he had been preserved otherwise than by the 
power of man. He, therefore, not only promises to exercise 
the gratitude which was due to his deliverer, but he con- 
firms in one word what he has rehearsed throughout the 
psalm, that he is indebted for his life to the grace of God, 
who had not suffered Saul to take it from him. The right- 
eousness of God is here to be understood of his faithfulness, 
which he makes good to his servants in defending and pre- 
serving their lives. God does not shut up or conceal his 
righteousness from our view in the secret recesses of his own 
mind, but manifests it for our advantage when he defends 
us against all wrongful violence, delivers us from oppression, 
and preserves us in safety, although wicked men make war 
upon us and persecute us. 


PSALM VIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS, 93 


PSALM VIII. 


David, reflecting upon God’s fatherly beneficence towards mankind, 
is not content. with simply giving thanks for it, but is enraptured by 
the contemplation of it. 


{ To the chief musician upon Hagittith. A song of David. 


1. O Jehovah’ our Lord, how wonderful is thy name in all the 
earth, to set” thy glory above the heavens ! 


WHETHER F'F), Gittith, signifies a musical instrument or 
some particular tune, or the beginning of some famous and 
well-known song, I do not take upon me to determine. 
Those who think that the psalm is so called because it was 
composed in the city of Gath, give a strained and far-fetched 
explanation of the matter. Of the other three opinions, of 
which I have spoken, it is not of much importance which is 
adopted. The principal thing to be attended to is what the 
psalm itself contains, and what is the design of it. David, 
it is true, sets before his eyes the wonderful power and 
glory of God in the creation and government of the material 
universe ; but he only slightly glances at this subject, as it 
were, in passing, and insists principally on the theme of 
God’s infinite goodness towards us. There is presented to 
us in the whole order of nature, the most abundant matter 
for showing forth the glory of God, but, as we are unques- 
tionably more powerfully affected with what we ourselves 
experience, David here, with great propriety, expressly cele- 
brates the special favour which God manifests towards man- 
kind ; for this, of all the subjects which come under our 
contemplation, is the brightest mirror in which we can be- 


i This first word is the incommunicable name of God ; the next word, 
wnx, Adonenu, our Lord, is derived from the root fp, dan, which signifies 
to rule, to judge, to support. 

te Pourceque tu as mis.”—Fr. “ Because thou hast set.” ‘* Ou, qui as 
mis, ou que de mettre.”—Fr. Marg. ‘ Or, who hast set, or even to set.” 


94 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VIII. 


hold his glory. It is, however, strange why he begins the 
psalm with an exclamation, when the usual way is first to 
give an account of a thing, and then to magnify its greatness 
and excellence. But if we remember what is said in other 
passages of Scripture, respecting the impossibility of express- 
ing in words the works of God, we will not be surprised 
that David, by this exclamation, acknowledges himself un- 
equal to the task of recounting them. David, therefore, 
when reflecting on the incomprehensible goodness which God 
has been graciously pleased to bestow on the human race, 
and feeling all his thoughts and senses swallowed up, and 
overwhelmed in the contemplation, exclaims that it is a 
subject worthy of admiration, because it cannot be set forth 
in words.! Besides, the Holy Spirit, who directed David's 
tongue, doubtless intended, by his instrumentality, to awaken 
men from the torpor and indifference which is common to 
them, so that they may not content themselves with cele- 
brating the infinite love of God and the innumerable 
benefits which they receive at his hand, in their sparing and 
frigid manner, but may rather apply their whole hearts to 
this holy exercise, and put forth in it their highest efforts. This 
exclamation of David implies, that when all the faculties of 
the human mind are exerted to the utmost in meditation on 
this subject,* they yet come far short of it. 

The name of God, as I explain it, is here to be understood 
of the knowledge of the character and perfections of God, 
in so far as he makes himself known to us. I do not approve 
of the subtle speculations of those who think the name of 
God means nothing else but God himself. It ought rather 
to be referred to the works and properties by which he is 
known, than to his essence. David, therefore, says that the 
earth is full of the wonderful glory of God, so that the fame 
or renown thereof not only reaches to the heavens, but 
ascends far above them. The verb JM, tenah, has been 
rendered by some in the preterite tense, hast set, but in my 
judgment, those give a more accurate translation who render 

1 ‘ Puis que langue ne bouche ne la scauroit exprimer.”—/r. * Because 


neither tongue nor mouth can express it.” 
2 A louer les graces de Dieu.”—Fr. “ In praising the grace of God.” 


PSALM VIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 95 


it in the infinitive mood, to place or to set; because the 
second clause is just an amplification of the subject of the 
first ; as if he had said, the earth is too small to contain the 
glory or the wonderful manifestations of the character and 
perfections of God. According to this view, Wk, asher, 
will not be a relative, but will have the meaning of the ex- 
pletive or exegetic particle even, which we use to explain 
what has preceded.' 


2. Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast founded 
thy strength because of the adversaries, that thou mightest 
put to flight the enemy and avenger. 


He now enters upon the proof of the subject which he had 
undertaken to discourse upon,’ declaring, that the providence 
of God, in order to make itself known to mankind, does not 
wait till men arrive at the age of maturity, but even from 
the very dawn of infancy shines forth so brightly as is suffi- 
cient to confute all the ungodly, who, through their profane 
contempt of God, would wish to extinguish his very name.’ 

The opinion of some, who think that %5{, mephi, out of the 
mouth, signifies *55, kephi, in the mouth, cannot be admitted, 
because it improperly weakens the emphasis which. David 
meant to give to his language and discourse. The mean- 
ing, therefore, is, that God, in order to commend his provi- 
dence, has no need of the powerful eloquence of rhetoricians,‘ 
nor even of distinct and formed language, because the 


16“ Baeyandr® autant comme Que, dont on use pour declarer ce qui 
a 6." —Fr. 

The doctrine proposed to be illustrated in this psalm is the excellence 
of God’s name, or his power, goodness, and other perfections, as manifest- 
ed in his providence and = of the world; and this the Psalmist 
states in the first verse. He then proceeds to establish and illustrate this 
doctrine: 1. From the case of infants; 2. From the starry heavens; and, 
3. From God's peng windfall of man, and visiting him, notwithstanding 
his unworthiness, si ess, and misery. 

. 8 Qui voudroyent _ son nom fust totalement aboli de la memoire 
des hommes.”—F7. ‘‘ Who would wish that his name were totally extin- 

i from the memory of men.” 

* “ Que Dieu pour magnifier et exalter sa providence n’ha pas besoin 
de la rhetorique et eloquence de grans orateurs."—Fr. ‘That God, 
in order to magnify and exalt his providence, has no need of the rheto- 
ric and eloquence of great orators.’ 


96 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VIII. 


tongues of infants, although they do not as yet speak, are 
ready and eloquent enough to celebrate it. But it may be 
asked, In what sense does he speak of children as the pro- 
claimers of the glory of God? In my judgment, those reason 
very foolishly who think that this is done when children be- 
gin to articulate, because then also the intellectual faculty 
of the soul shows itself. Granting that they are called 
babes, or infants, even until they arrive at their seventh 
year, how can such persons imagine that those who now 
speak distinctly are still hanging on the breast? Nor is 
there any more propriety in the opinion of those who say, 
that the words for babes and sucklings are here put allegori- 
cally for the faithful, who, being born again by the Spirit of 
God, no longer retain the old age of the flesh. What need, 
then, is there to wrest the words of David, when their true 
meaning is so clear and suitable? He says that babes and 
sucklings are advocates sufficiently powerful to vindicate the 
providence of God. Why does he not entrust this business 
to men, but to show that the tongues of infants, even before 
they are able to pronounce a single word, speak loudly and 
distinctly in commendation of God’s liberality towards the 
human race? Whence is it that nourishment is ready for 
them as soon as they are born, but because God wonderfully 
changes blood into milk ? Whence, also, have they the skill 
to suck, but because the same God has, by a mysterious 
instinct, fitted their tongues for doing this? David, there- 
fore, has the best reason for declaring, that although the 
tongues of all, who have arrived at the age of manhood, 
should become silent, the speechless mouth of infants is suf- 
ficiently able to celebrate the praise of God. And when he 
not only introduces babes as witnesses and preachers of 
God’s glory, but also attributes mature strength to their 
mouth, the expression is very emphatic. It means the 
same thing as if he had said, These are invincible champions 
of God who, when it comes to the conflict, can easily scatter 
and discomfit the whole host of the wicked despisers of God, 
and those who have abandoned themselves to impiety.! 


1 “« Et desconfire foute T's l’'armee des meschans contempteurs de Dieu, et 
gens adonnez a impie’ . 


PSALM VIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. Q7 


We should observe against whom he imposes upon infants 
the office of defending the glory of God, namely, against 
the hardened despisers of God, who dare to rise up against 
heayen to make war upon God, as the poets have said, in 
olden time, of the giants. 

Since, therefore, these monsters,’ with furious violence, 
pluck up by the roots, and overthrow whatever godliness and 
the fear of God* there is in the world, and through their 
hardihood endeavour to do violence to heaven itself, David 
in mockery of them brings into the field of battle against them 
the mouths of infants, which he says are furnished with 
armour of sufficient strength, and endued with sufficient for- 
titude, to lay their intolerable pride* in the dust. He, there- 
fore, immediately subjoins, On account of the adversaries. God 
is not under the necessity of making war with great power 
to overcome the faithful, who willingly hearken to his voice, 
and manifest a ready obedience, as soon as he gives the 
smallest intimation of his will. The providence of God, I 
confess, shines forth principally for the sake of the faith- 
ful, because they only have eyes to behold it. But as they 
show themselves willing to receive instruction, God teaches 
them with gentleness; while, on the other hand, he arms 
himself against his enemies, who never submit themselves to 
him but by constraint. Some take the word founded as 
meaning, that, in the very birth or generation of man, God 
lays foundations for manifesting his own glory. But this 
sense is too restricted. I have no doubt that the word is 
put for to establish, as if the prophet had said, God needs not 
strong military forces to destroy the ungodly; instead of 
_ these, the mouths of children are sufficient for his purpose.° 
To put to flight. Interpreters differ with respect to the 


1 “ Comme les poétes ont dit anciennement des geans.”—Fr. 

2 “ Cyclopes.”—Latin version. ‘* Ces monstres.”—French version. 

3 “ Et crainte de Dieu.”—Fr. 

4 “ Leur orgueil intolerable.”—Fr. 

5 “Comme si le prophete eust dit que Dieu se sert des bouches des 

is enfans, comme d'une puissante armee et bien duite & la guerre et 

qu’elles luy suffisent pour destruire et exterminer les meschans.”—Fr. 
** As if the prophet had said, God makes use of the mouths of little child- 
ren as of a powerful and well-fitted army, and these suffice him to destroy 
and exterminate the wicked.” 


VOL. L G 


98 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VIII. 


word FY3wWN, hashebith. It properly signifies, to cause to cease ; 
for it is in the conjugation Hiphil of the neuter verb WIY, 
shabath, which signifies to cease. But it is often taken 
metaphorically for to destroy, or to reduce to nothing, because 
destruction or death brings to an end. Others translate it, 
that thou mayest restrain, as if David meant that they were 
put to silence, so that they desisted from cursing or reviling 
God. As, however, there is here a beautiful allusion to a 
hostile combat, as’ I have a little before explained, I have 
preferred the military phrase, to put to flight. But it is asked, 
How does God put to flight his enemies, who, by their 
impious slanders and detractions, do not cease to strike at, 
and violently to rush forward to oppose all the proofs of a 
Divine Providence which daily manifest themselves?! I an- 
swer, They are not routed or overthrown in respect of their 
being compelled to become more humble and unassuming ; but 
because, with all their blasphemies and canine barkings, they 
continue in the state of abasement and confusion to which 
they have been brought. To express the whole in a few 
words: so early as the generation or birth of man the 
splendour of Divine Providence is so apparent, that even 
infants, who hang upon their mothers’ breasts, can bring down 
to the ground the fury of the enemies of God. Although 
his enemies may do their utmost, and may even burst with 
rage a hundred times, it is in vain for them to endeavour to 
overthrow the strength which manifests itself in the weak- 
ness of infancy. A desire of revenge reigns in all unbelievers, 
while, on the other hand, God governs his own children 
by the spirit of meekness and benignity :? but, according to 
the scope of the present passage, the prophet applies this 
epithet, the avenger, to the despisers of God, who are not 
only cruel towards man, but who also burn with frantic rage 
to make war even against God himself. 

I have now discharged the duty of a faithful interpreter 
in opening up the mind of the prophet. There is only one 


' “ Lesquels par leurs mesdisances et detractions plenes de sacrilege ne 
cessent de heurter et choquer impetueusement encontre tout ce en quoy 
la providence de Dieu se manifeste journellement.”—Fr. 

** De douceur et benignite.”—Fr. 


PSALM VIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 99 


difficulty remaining, which is this, that Christ (Matth. xxi. 
16) seems to put upon this passage a different meaning, 
when he applies it to children ten years old. But this diffi- 
culty is easily removed. Christ reasons from the greater to 
the less in this manner: If God has appointed children even 
in infancy the vindicators of his glory, there is no absurdity | 
in his making them the instruments of showing forth his 
praise by their tongues after they have arrived at the age of 
seven years and upwards. 


3. When I see thy heavens, the works of thy fingers ; the moon 
and the stars which thou hast arranged : 

4. What is man,' that thou art mindful of him? and the son of 
man, that thou visitest him ?? 


As the Hebrew particle '5, Ai, has often the same meaning 
as because or for, and simply affirms a thing, both the Greek 
and the Latin fathers have generally read the fourth verse as 
if it were a complete sentence by itself. But it is, doubt- 
less, closely connected with the following verse ; and, there- 
fore, the two verses ought to be joined together. The 
Hebrew word 5, ki, might be very properly translated into 
the disjunctive particle, although, making the meaning to be 
this: Although the infinite majesty of God shines forth in the 
heavenly bodies, and justly keeps the eyes of men fixed on 
the contemplation of it, yet his glory is beheld in a special 
manner, in the great favour which he bears to men, and in 
the goodness which he manifests towards them. This inter- 
pretation would not be at variance with the scope of the 
passage ; but I choose rather to follow the generally received 
opinion. My readers, however, must be careful to mark the 
design of the Psalmist, which is to enhance, by this compari- 
son, the infinite goodness of God; for it is, indeed, a won- 
derful thing that the Creator of heaven, whose glory is so 
surpassingly great as to ravish us with the highest admira- 
tion, condescends so far as graciously to take upon him the 


: 2 Alors je pense, Qu’est-ce de homme ?”—Fr, “ Then I think, what is 
man ?” 
2 ** Ou, as souvenance de luy ?”—Fr. marg. “ Or, art mindful of him ?” 


100 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VIII. 


care of the human race. That the Psalmist makes this con- 
trast may be inferred from the Hebrew word, W)}sx, enosh, 
which we have rendered man, and which expresses the 
frailty of man rather than any strength or power which he 
possesses. We see that miserable men, in moving upon the 
earth, are mingled with the vilest creatures; and, therefore, 
God, with very good reason, might despise them and reckon 
them of no account if he were to stand upon the considera- 
tion of his own greatness or dignity. The prophet, therefore, 
speaking interrogatively, abases their condition, intimating 
that God’s wonderful goodness is displayed the more brightly 
in that so glorious a Creator, whose majesty shines resplen- 
dently in the heavens, graciously condescends to adorn a 
creature so miserable and vile as man is with the greatest 
glory, and to enrich him with numberless blessings. If he 
had a mind to exercise his liberality towards any, he was 
under no necessity of choosing men who are but dust and 
clay, in order to prefer them above all other creatures, seeing 
he had a sufficient number in heaven towards whom to show 
himself liberal.2 Whoever, therefore, is not astonished and 


1 The other phrase by which man is described, tow }>, ben Adam, is liter- 
ally the son of Adam,—man, the son of Adam, and who, like him, is formed 
of the dust of the ground, as the name Adam implies, man, the son of 
apostate and fallen Adam, and who is depraved and guilty like him. 
** As before, men are called Enosh for their doleful estate by sin, so are 
they called Adam and sons of Adam, that is, earthly, to put them in mind 
of their original and end, who were made of Adamah, the earth, even of 
the dust, and to dust shall return again, Gen. ii. 7; iii. 19.”—Ainsworth, 
Some are of opinion that this expression, ben Adam, means man in his 
most exalted state, and that it is contrasted with the former, ex, enosh, 
which represents man in a frail, weak, and miserable condition. Dr Pye 
Smith renders the words thus :— 

‘* What is man, that thou art mindful of him? 
Even the [noblest] son of man, that thou visitest him ?” 

And adds, in a foot note, ** Our ee pan has no single terms to mark 
the distinction so beautifully exp by wun, frail, miserable man, Beords, 
and mw, man at his best estate, avdeuxog. have endeavoured to ap- 
proach the idea by the insertion of an epithet.”—Scripture Testimony to 
the Messiah, vol. i. p. 217. Bishop Patrick observes, that “‘ Ben Adam 
and bene ish, the son of man and the sons of men, are phrases which 
in the Scripture language to princes, and sometimes the greatest 
princes ;” and he explains the phrase, the son of man, as here meaning “ the 
greatest of men ;” “the greatest prince in the world.”—Preface to his 
Paraphrase on the Book of Psalms. 

+ “ Veu qu'il avoit assez au ciel envers qui se monstrer liberal.” — Fr. 


PSALM VIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 101 


deeply affected at this miracle, is more than ungrateful and 
stupid. 

When the Psalmist calls the heavens God’s heavens, and 
the works of his fingers, he has a reference to the same sub- 
ject, and intends to illustrate it. How is it that God comes 
forth from so noble and glorious a part of his works, and 
stoops down to us, poor worms of the earth, if it is not 
to magnify and to give a more illustrious manifestation of his 
goodness? From this, also, we learn, that those are charge- 
able with a very presumptuous abuse of the goodness of 
God, who take occasion from it to be proud of the excel- 
lence which they possess, as if they had either obtained it 
by their own skill, or as if they possessed it on account of 
their own merit ; whereas their origin should rather remind 
them that it has been gratuitously conferred upon those who 
are otherwise vile and contemptible creatures, and utterly 
unworthy of receiving any good from God. Whatever esti- 
mable quality, therefore, we see in ourselves, let it stir us up 
to celebrate the free and undeserved goodness of God in 
bestowing it upon us. 

The verb, at the close of the third verse, which others trans- 
late to prepare, or to found, or to establish, I have thought 
proper to render to arrange ; for the Psalmist seems to have 
a reference to the very beautiful order by which God has so 
appropriately distinguished the position of the stars, and daily 
regulates their course. When it is said, God is mindful of 
man, it signifies the same thing as that he bears towards him 
a fatherly love, defends and cherishes him, and extends his 
providence towards him. Almost all interpreters render 
“D5, pakad, the last word of this verse, éo visit; and I am 
unwilling to differ from them, since this sense suits the pass- 
age very well. But as it sometimes signifies to remember, 
and as we will often find in the Psalms the repetition of the 
same thought in different words, it may here be very pro- 
perly translated to remember; as if David had said, This is a 
marvellous thing, that God thinks upon men, and remembers 
them continually. 


102 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VIII. 


5. For! thou hast made him little lower than God,? and hast 
crowned him with glory and honour. 
6. Thou hast set him over the works of thy hands : Thou hast 
put all things under his feet. 


5. Thou hast made him little lower. The Hebrew copulative 
¥5, ki, [have no doubt, ought to be translated into the causal 
particle for, seeing the Psalmist confirms what he has just now 
said concerning the infinite goodness of God towards men, 
in showing himself near to them, and mindful of them. In 
the first place, he represents them as adorned with so many: 
honours as to render their condition not far inferior to divine 
and celestial glory. In the second place, he mentions the 
external dominion and power which they possess over all 
creatures, from which it appears how high the degree of dig- 
nity isto which God hath exalted them. I have, indeed, no 
doubt but he intends, by the first,’ the distinguished endow- 
ments which clearly manifest that men were formed after 
the image of God, and created to the hope of a blessed and 
immortal life. The reason with which they are endued, and 
by which they can distinguish between good and evil; the 
principle of religion which is planted in them; their inter- 
course with each other, which is preserved from being broken 
up by certain sacred bonds; the regard to what is becoming, 
and the sense of shame which guilt awakens in them, as well 
as their continuing to be governed by laws; all these things 
are clear indications of pre-eminent and celestial wisdom. 
David, therefore, not without good reason, exclaims that man- 
kind are adorned with glory and honour. To be crowned, 
is here taken metaphorically, as if David had said, he is 
clothed and adorned with marks of honour, which are 
not far removed from the splendour of the divine majesty. 
The Septuagint render rombx, Elohim, by angels, of which 
Ido not disapprove, since this name, as is well known, is 
often given to angels, and I explain the words of David as 
meaning the same thing as if he had said, that the condition 


1“ Ou, Et tu Pas..—Fr. marg. ‘* Or, And thou hast.” 
2 “ Ou, les anges.” —Fr. marg. ‘“ Or, the angels.” 
$ “ Qu’il n’entende par la premier.”—Fr. 


PSALM VIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 103 


of men is nothing less than a divine and celestial state. But 
as the other translation seems more natural, and as it is 
almost universally adopted by the Jewish interpreters, I 
have preferred following it. Nor is it any sufficient objec- 
tion to this view, that the apostle, in his Epistle to the He- 
brews, (chap. ii. 7,) quoting this passage, says, little less than 
the angels, and not than God ;' for we know what freedoms 
the apostles took in quoting texts of Scripture ; not, indeed, 
to wrest them to a meaning different from the true one, but 
because they reckoned it sufficient to show, by a reference 
to Scripture, that what they taught was sanctioned by the 
word of God, although they did not quote the precise words. 
Accordingly, they never had any hesitation in changing the 
words, provided the substance of the text remained un- 
changed. 

There is another question which it is more difficult to solve. 
While the Psalmist here discourses concerning the excellency 
of men, and describes them, in respect of this, as coming near 
to God, the apostle applies the passage to the humiliation of 
Christ. In the first place, we must consider the propriety 
of applying to the person of Christ what is here spoken con- 
cerning all mankind; and, secondly, how we may explain it 
as referring to Christ’s being humbled in his death, when he 
lay without form or beauty, and as it were disfigured under 
the reproach and curse of the cross. What some say, that 
what is true of the members may be properly and suitably 
transferred to the head, might be a sufficient answer to the 


1 Certainly the fact that Paul uses the word angels instead of God, 
does not prove the inaccuracy of Calvin’s rendering. As the Septuagint 
version was in general use among the Jews in the time of Paul, he very 
naturally quotes from it just as we do from our English version. And this 
was euflicient for his purpose. His object was, to answer an objection which 
the Jews brought against the Christian dispensation, as being inferior to the 
Mosaic, inasmuch as angels were mediators of the latter, while the mediator 
er head of the former was in their estimation but a man. This objection 
he answers from their own Scriptures, and quotes this psalm to show, that 
Christ, in his human nature, was little inferior to the angels, and that he 
is exalted far above them in respect of the glory and dominion with which 
he is crowned. If the apostle had quoted from the Hebrew Scriptures, 
and used mnbx, Elohim, God, meaning the Most High, his argument in 
support of the dignity of Christ in human nature would have been still 
stronger.—See Stuart's Commentary on the Hebrews, vol. ii. pp. 68-71. 


104 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VIII. 


first question; but I go a step farther, for Christ is not only 
the first begotten of every creature, but also the restorer of 
mankind. What David here relates belongs properly to the 
beginning of the creation, when man’s nature was perfect.’ 
But we know that, by the fall of Adam, all mankind fell 
from their primeval state of integrity, for by this the image 
of God was almost entirely effaced from us, and we were also 
divested of those distinguishing gifts by which we would have 
been, as it were, elevated to the condition of demigods; in 
short, from a state of the highest excellence, we were re- 
duced to a condition of wretched and shameful destitution. 
In consequence of this corruption, the liberality of God, of 
which David here speaks, ceased, so far, at least, as that it 
does not at all appear in the brilliancy and splendour in which 
it was manifested when man was in his unfallen state. True, 
it is not altogether extinguished; but, alas! how small a 
portion of it remains amidst the miserable overthrow and 
ruins of the fall. But as the heavenly Father hath bestow- 
ed upon his Son an immeasurable fulness of all blessings, that 
all of us may draw from this fountain, it follows that what- 
ever God bestows upon us by him belongs of right to him 
in the highest degree; yea, he himself is the living image of 
God, according to which we must be renewed, upon which 
depends our participation of the invaluable blessings which 
are here spoken of. If any person object that David 
first put the question, What is man? because God has so 
abundantly poured forth his favour upon a creature so 
miserable, contemptible, and worthless; but that there is no 
cause for such admiration of God’s favour for Christ, who is 
not an ordinary man, but the only begotten Son of God. 
The answer is easy, and it is this: What was bestowed upon 
Christ’s human nature was a free gift; nay, more, the fact 
that a mortal man, and the son of Adam, is the only Son of 
God, and the Lord of glory, and the head of angels, affords 
a bright illustration of the mercy of God. At the same 
time, it is to be observed, that whatever gifts he has received 


* “ Lorsque la nature de I’humain n’estoit point encore corrompue.”— 
Fr. “ When the nature of man was not yet corrupted.” 


PSALM VIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 105 


ought to be considered as proceeding from the free grace of 
God, so much the more for this reason, that they are intend- 
ed principally to be conferred upon us. His excellence and 
heavenly dignity, therefore, are extended to us also, seeing it 
is for our sake he is enriched with them. 

What the apostle therefore says in that passage concerning 
the abasement of Christ for a short time, is not intended by 
him as an explanation of this text; but for the purpose of 
enriching and illustrating the subject on which he is dis- 
coursing, he introduces and accommodates to it what had 
been spoken in a different sense. The same apostle did not 
hesitate, in Rom. x. 6, in the same manner to enrich and 
to employ, in a sense different from their original one, the 
words of Moses in Deut. xxx. 12: “ Who shall go up 
for us to heaven and bring it to us, that we may hear it 
and do it?’ &c. The apostle, therefore, in quoting this 
psalm, had not so much an eye to what David meant; but 
making an allusion to these words, Thou hast made him a 
little lower ; and again, Thou hast crowned him with honour, he 
applies this diminution to the death of Christ, and the glory 
and honour to his resurrection.' A similar account may be 
given of Paul’s declaration in Eph. iv. 8, in which he does 
not so much explain the meaning of the text, (Ps. xviii. 18,) 
as he devoutly applies it, by way of accommodation, to the 
person of Christ. 


6. Thou hast set him over. David now comes to the second 
point, which I have just now spoken of, namely, that from 
the dominion over all things which God has conferred upon 
men, it is evident how great is the love which he has borne 
towards them, and how much account he has made of them. 
As he does not stand in need of any thing himself, he has 
destined all the riches, both of heaven and earth, for their 
use. It is certainly a singular honour, and one which cannot 
be sufficiently estimated, that mortal man, as the representa- 
tive of God, has dominion over the world, as if it pertained 


1“Tn Vas fait un peu moindre; puis Tu l’as couronné d’honneur, il 
approprie ceste diminution & la mort de Christ, et la gloire et honneur a 
la resurrection.”—Fr. 


106 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VIII. 


to him by right, and that to whatever quarter he turns his 
eyes, he sees nothing wanting which may contribute to the 
convenience and happiness of his life. As this passage is 
quoted by Paul in his First Epistle to the Corinthians, (ch. 
xv. 27,) where he discourses concerning the spiritual kingdom 
of Christ, some may object and say, that the meaning he 
puts upon it is very different from the sense which I haye 
given. But it is easy to answer this objection, and the answer 
which I give to it is this, That generally the whole order of 
this world is arranged and established for the purpose of con- 
ducing to the comfort and happiness of men. In what way 
the passage may properly apply to Christ alone, I have 
already declared a little before. The only thing which now 
remains to be considered is, how far this declaration extends 
—that all things are subjected to men. Now, there is no 
doubt, that if there is any thing in heaven or on earth which 
is opposed to men, the beautiful order which God had 
established in the world at the beginning is now thrown 
into confusion. The consequence of this is, that man- 
kind, after they were ruined by the fall of Adam, were not 
only deprived of so distinguished and honourable an estate, 
and dispossessed of their former dominion, but are also held 
captive under a degrading and ignominious bondage. Christ, 
it is true, is the lawful heir of heaven and earth, by whom 
the faithful recover what they had lost in Adam; but he has 
not as yet actually entered upon the full possession of his 
empire and dominion. Whence the apostle concludes, that 
what is here said by David' will not be perfectly accom- 
plished until death be abolished. Accordingly, the apostle 
reasons in this manner: “ If all things are subdued to 
Christ, nothing ought to stand in opposition to his people. 
But we see death still exercising his tyranny against them. 
It follows then, that there remains the hope of a better state 
than the present.” Now, this flows from the principle of 
which I have spoken, that the world was originally created 
for this end, that every part of it should tend to the happi- 
ness of man as its great object. In another part of his writ- 


1 “ Que ce qui est yci dit par David.”—Fr. 


PSALM VIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 107 


ings, the apostle argues on the same principle, when, in order 
to prove that we must all stand at the last day before the 
judgment-seat of Christ, he brings forward the following 
passage, “ Unto me every knee shall bow,” (Rom. xiv. 10.) 
In this syllogism, what Logicians call the minor proposition 
must be supplied,’ namely, that there are still too many who 
proudly and obstinately cast off his yoke, and are averse to 
bow the knee in token of their submission to him. 


7. All sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the fields ; 

8. The birds of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever 
passeth through the paths of the seas. 

9. O Jehovah, our Lord, how wonderful is thy name in all the 
earth ! 


The preceding question, with respect to the extent of 
man’s dominion over the works of God, seems not yet to be 
fully answered. If the prophet here declares, by way of ex- 
position, to what extent God has put all things in subjection 
to us, this subjection, it seems, must be restricted to what 
contributes to the temporal comfort and convenience of man 
while he continues in this world. To this difficulty I answer, 
That the Psalmist does not intend in these verses to give a 
complete enumeration of all the things which are subjected 
to man’s dominion, and of which he had spoken generally in 
the preceding verse, but he brings forward an example of this 
subjection only in one part or particular; yea, he has espe- 
cially chosen that part which affords a clear and manifest evi- 
dence of the truth he intended to establish, even to those whose 
minds are uncultivated and slow of apprehension. There is 
no man of a mind so dull and stupid but may see, if he will be 
at the trouble to open his eyes, that it is by the wonderful 
providence of God that horses and oxen yield their service 
to men,—that sheep produce wool to clothe them,—and that 
all sorts of animals supply them with food for their nourish- 
ment and support; even from their own flesh. And the 
more that this dominion is apparent, the more ought we to 


{ “ Car il faut suppleer en ceste argument la proposition que les Dialec- 
ticiens appellent.”—Fr. 


108 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM VII. 


be affected with a sense of the goodness and grace of our — 
God as often as we either eat food, or enjoy any of the other 
comforts of life. We are, therefore, not to understand David as 
meaning that it is a proof that man is invested with dominion 
over all the works of God, because he clothes himself with 
the wool and the skins of beasts, because he lives upon their 
flesh, and because he employs their labour for his own ad- 
vantage ; for this would be inconclusive reasoning. He only 
brings forward this as an example, and as a mirror in which 
we may behold and contemplate the dominion over the works 
of his hands, with which God has honoured man. The sum 
is this: God, in creating man, gave a demonstration of his 
infinite grace and more than fatherly love towards him, which 
ought justly to strike us with amazement; and although, by 
the fall of man, that happy condition has been almost entirely 
ruined, yet there is still in him some remains of the 
liberality which God then displayed towards him, which 
should suffice to fill us with admiration. In this mournful 
and wretched overthrow, it is true, the legitimate order which 
God originally established no longer shines forth, but the 
faithful whom God gathers to himself, under Christ their 
head, enjoy so much of the fragments of the good things 
which they lost in Adam, as may furnish them with abundant 
matter of wonder at the singularly gracious manner in which 
God deals with them. David here confines his attention to 
God’s temporal benefits, but it is our duty to rise higher, 
and to contemplate the invaluable treasures of the kingdom 
of heaven which he has unfolded in Christ, and all the gifts 
which belong to the spiritual life, that by reflecting upon 
these our hearts may be inflamed with love to God, that 
we may be stirred up to the practice of godliness, and that 
we may not suffer ourselyes to become slothful and remiss 
in celebrating his praises. 


PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 109 


PSALM IX. 


David, after having recounted the former victories which he had gained, 
and exalted in lofty strains the grace and power of God in their happy 
issue, now again, when he sees new enemies and dangers rising up, 
implores the protection of the same God by whom he had before been 
delivered, and beseeches him to overthrow the pride of his enemies. 


§ To the chief musician Almuth Laben. A Psalm of David. 


This inscription is variously explained. Some translate it, Upon the 
death of Laben, and are of opinion that he was one of the chief captains 
of Dayid’s enemies. Others are inclined to think it was rather a ficti- 
tious name, and that Goliath is the person spoken of in this psalm. 
According to others, it was a musicalinstrument. But to me it seems a 
more correct, or, at least, (as I am accustomed to speak when the matter 
is obscure,') a more probable opinion, that it was the beginning of some 
well-known song, to the tune of which the psalm was composed. The 
disputes of interpreters as to what victory David here celebrates, in my 
judgment, are unnecessary, and serve no good purpose. In the first 
place, their opinion that it is a song of victory, in which David simply 
gives thanks to God, is confuted, and shown to be erroneous from the 
scope of the psalm. The greater part is indeed occupied in singing 
the praises of God, but the whole ought to be considered as a prayer ; 
in which, for the purpose of elevating his mind to confidence in God, he 
calls to his remembrance, according to his usual manner, by what won- 
derfal displays of the power of God he had formerly been delivered from 
the violence and power of his enemies. It is therefore a mistake to limit 
to one victory this thanksgiving, in which he intended to comprehend 
many deliverances. 


1. Iwill praise Jehovah with my whole heart ; I will tell of thy 
marvellous works. 

2. I will rejoice and exult? in thee ; yea, I will celebrate in songs 
thy name, O thou Most High. 


1 + Comme on a accoustumé de parler quand la chose est obscure.” —Fr, 

2 Or, leap for joy. This is the precise meaning of the Hebrew word 
nsbyx, E-eltsah. The Septuagint render it dyaaaséoouas, which means 
the same thing. 


110 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


3. When my enemies are turned back, they fall down, and are put 
to flight * at thy presence. 


1. I will praise the Lord. David begins the psalm in this 
way, to induce God to succour him in the calamities with 
which he was now afflicted. As God continues his fayour 
towards his own people without intermission, all the good he 
has hitherto done to us should serve to inspire us with con- 
fidence and hope, that he will be gracious and merciful to us 
in the time to come.? There is, indeed, in these words a 
profession of gratitude for the favours which he has received 
from God;* but, in remembering his past mercies, he en- 
courages himself to expect succour and aid in future emer- 
gencies ; and by this means he opens the gate of prayer. 
The whole heart is taken for an upright or sincere heart, 
which is opposed to a double heart. Thus he distinguishes 
himself not only from gross hypocrites, who praise God only 
with their lips outwardly, without having their hearts in any 
way affected, but also acknowledges that whatever he had 
hitherto done which was commendable, proceeded entirely 
from the pure grace of God. Even irreligious men, I admit, 
when they have obtained some memorable victory, are 
ashamed to defraud God of the praise which is due to him; 
but we see that as soon as they have uttered a single expres- 
sion in acknowledgment of the assistance God has afforded 
them, they immediately begin to boast loudly, and to sing 
triumphs in honour of their own valour, as if they were under 
no obligations whatever to God. In short, it is a piece of 
pure mockery when they profess that their exploits have 
been done by the help of God; for, after having made obla- 
tion to Him, they sacrifice to their own counsels, skill, cour- 
age, and resources. Observe how the prophet Habakkuk, 
under the person of one presumptuous king, wisely reproves 
the ambition which is common to all, (Hab. i. 16.) Yea, 


1 “ Et sont ruinez devant ta face.”—/Fr. “‘ And are overthrown before 
thy face.” 

* “ Doit servir pour nous asseurer et faire esperer qu’il nous sera pro- 
pice et debonnaire a l’advenir.”—Fr. 

3“ De la faveur qu'il a receué de Dieu.” —Fr. 


inna ah ite 


PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 111 


we see that the famous generals of antiquity, who, upon 
returning victorious from some battle, desired public and 
solemn thanksgivings' to be decreed in their name to the gods, 
thought of nothing less than of doing honour to their false 
deities; but only abused their names under a false pretence, 
in order thereby to obtain an opportunity of indulging in vain 
boasting, that their own superior prowess might be acknow- 
ledged.? David, therefore, with good reason, affirms that 
he is unlike the children of this world, whose hypocrisy or 
fraud is discovered by the wicked and dishonest distribution 
which they make between God and themselves,’ arrogating 
to themselves the greater part of the praise which they pre- 
tended to ascribe to God. He praised God with his whole 
heart, which they did not; for certainly it is not praising 
God with the whole heart when a mortal man dares to appro- 
priate the smallest portion of the glory which God claims for 
himself. God cannot bear with seeing his glory appropriated 
by the creature in even the smallest degree, so intolerable 
to him is the sacrilegious arrogance of those who, by praising 
themselves, obscure his glory as far as they can. 

LI will tell of all thy marvellous works. Here David con- 
firms what I have already said, that he does not treat in this 
psalm of one victory or one deliverance only; for he pro- 
poses to himself in general all the miracles which God had 
wrought in his behalf, as subjects of meditation. He applies 
the term marvellous not to all the benefits which he had re- 
ceived from God, but to those more signal and memorable 
deliverances in which was exhibited a bright and striking 
manifestation of the divine power. God would have us to 
acknowledge him as the author of all our blessings ; but on 
some of his gifts he has engraven more evident marks in 
order the more effectually to awaken our senses, which are 
otherwise as if asleep or dead. David's language, therefore, 
is an acknowledgment that he was preserved of God, not by 
ordinary means, but by the special power of God, which was 
conspicuously displayed in this matter; inasmuch as he had 

1 “ Processions.”—Fr. 


2 “ Afin que leurs belles prouesses veissent en cognoissance.”—Fr. 
3 *% Qu’ils font entre Dieu et eux.” —Fr. 


112 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


stretched forth his hand in a miraculous manner, and above 
the common and usual way. 


2. I will rejoice and exult in thee. Observe how the faith- - 
ful praise God sincerely and without hypocrisy, when they 
do not rest on themselves for happiness, and are not in- 
toxicated with foolish and carnal presumption, but rejoice 
in God alone; which is nothing else than to seek the mat- 
ter of their joy from the favour of God, and from no other 
source, since in it perfect happiness consists. J will rejoice 
in thee. We ought to consider how great is the difference 
and opposition between the character of the joy which men 
endeavour to find in themselves, and the character of the 
joy which they seek in God. David, the more forcibly 
to express how he renounces every thing which may keep 
hold of or occupy him with vain delight, adds the word 
exult, by which he means that he finds in God a full and 
an overflowing abundance of joy, so that he is not under 
the necessity of seeking even the smallest drop in any other 
quarter. Moreover, it is of importance to remember what 
I have previously observed, that David sets before himself 
the testimonies of the divine goodness which he had formerly 
experienced, in order to encourage himself with the more 
alacrity to lay open his heart' to God, and to present his 
prayers before him. He who begins his prayer by affirming 
that God is the great source and object of his joy, fortifies 
himself before-hand with the strongest confidence, in pre- 
senting his supplications to the hearer of prayer. 


3. While my enemies are turned back. In these words he 
assigns the reason why he undertakes to sing the praises of 
God, namely, because he acknowledges that his frequent 
victories had been achieved, not by his own power, nor by 
the power of his soldiers, but by the free favour of God. In 
the first part of the verse he narrates historically how his 
enemies were discomfited or put to flight; and then he adds, 
what faith alone could enable him to say, that this did not 


1 “ Afin de descouvrir son cceur a Dieu plus alaigrement.”—Pr. 


— — a 
. 


PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 113 


take place by the power of man or by chance, but because 
God fought for him,' and stood against them in the battle. 
He says, they fall,? and are put to flight Av THY PRESENCE. 
David therefore acted wisely, when, upon seeing his enemies 
turn their backs, he lifted up the eyes of his mind to God, 
in order to perceive that victory flowed to him from no other 
source than from the secret and incomprehensible aid of 
God. And, doubtless, it is He only who guides the simple by 
the spirit of wisdom, while he inflicts madness on the crafty, 
and strikes them with amazement,—who inspires with courage 
the faint and timid, while he causes the boldest to tremble 
with fear,—who restores to the feeble their strength, while he 
reduces the strong to weakness,—who upholds the faint- 
hearted by his power, while he makes the sword to fall from 
the hands of the valiant;—and, finally, who brings the battle 
to a prosperous or disastrous issue, just as he pleases. 
When, therefore, we see our enemies overthrown, we must 
beware of limiting our view to what is visible to the eye of 
sense, like ungodly men, who, while they see with their 
bodily eyes, are yet blind; but let us instantly call to our 
remembrance this truth, that when our enemies turn back, 
they are put to flight by the presence of the Lord.* The 
verbs, fall and put to flight, in the Hebrew, are in the future 
tense, but I have translated them in the present, because 
David anew presents to his own view the goodness of God 
which had formerly been manifested towards him. 


1 Mais pource que Dieu a battaillé pour luy.”—Fr. 

* The idea implied in the verb bys, cashal, is that of stumbling, and it 
is here employed in a military sense. In Psalm xxvii. 2, where it is said 
of David’s enemies, “‘ they stumbled and fell ;” this is the verb used for 
stumbled. The idea there is not properly that of falling, but of being 
wounded and weakened by the eeabinn blocks in the way, previous 
to falling. The word bys, cashal, has been viewed as having the same 
meaning in the e before us, ‘It refers,” “re Hammond, “ to 
those that either faint in a march or are wounded in a battle, or ially 
that in flight meet with galling traps in their way, and so are galled and 
lamed, rendered unable to go forward, and so fall, and become liable to all 
the ill chances of pursuits, and as here are overtaken and perish in the 


3 « C'est la face de Dieu qui les poursuit.”—Fr. “ It is the face of God 
which pursues them.” 
VOL. I. H 


114 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


4. For thou hast maintained my right and my cause ; thou sattest 
upon the throne a righteous judge. 

5. Thou hast rebuked the nations ; thou hast destroyed the wicked; 
thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever. 


The Psalmist proceeds a step farther in the 4th verse, de- 
claring that God stretched forth his hand to give him sue- 
cour, because he was unrighteously afflicted by his enemies. 
And surely if we desire to be favoured with the assistance 
of God, we ought to see to it that we fight under his stand- 
ard. David, therefore, calls him a judge of righteousness, or, 
which is the same thing, a righteous judge ; as if he had said, 
God has acted towards me according to his ordinary manner 
and constant principle of acting, for it is his usual way to 
undertake the defence of good causes. I am more inelined 
to render the words, Thou sittest a just judge, than to render 
them, O just judge, thou sittest,? because the form of expres- 
sion, according to the first reading, is more emphatic. The 
import of it is this: God at length has assumed the character 
of judge, and is gone up into his judgment-seat to execute 
the office of judge. On this account he glories in having 
law and right on his side, and declares that God was the 
maintainer of his right and cause. What follows in the 
next verse, Thou hast destroyed [or discomfited| the wicked, be- 
longs also to the same subject. When he beholds his enemies 
overthrown, he does not rejoice in their destruction, con- 
sidered simply in itself; but in condemning them on account 
of their unrighteousness, he says that they have received the 
punishment which they deserved. Under the name of nations 
he means, that it was not a small number of ungodly persons 
who were destroyed, but great armies, yea, even all who had 
risen up against him from different quarters. And the 
goodness of God shines forth the brighter in this, that, on 
account of the favour which he bare to one of his servants, 
he spared not even whole nations. When he says, Thou 
hast blotted out their name for ever, it may be understood as 
meaning, that they were destroyed without any hope of ever 


' “ Ou pour juger justement.”—Fr. marg. “ Or to judge righteously.” 
2“ J’ay mieux aimé traduire, Tu t’es assis juste juge; que, O juste 
juge tu t’es assis.”"—Fr. ; 


PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 115 


being able to rise again, and devoted to everlasting shame. 
We could not otherwise discern how God buries the name 
of the ungodly with themselves, did we not hear him declare 
that the memory of the righteous shall be for ever blessed, 


(Prov. x. 7.) 


6. O thou enemy, desolations are come to an end for ever ; and 
thou hast destroyed [or demolished '| cities ; their memory 
has perished with them. 

7. And Jehovah sitteth for ever, he hath prepared his throne for 

judgment. 

8. And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall judge 
the nations in uprightness. 


6. O thou enemy, desolations are come to an end for ever. 
This sixth verse is explained in different ways. Some read 
it interrogatively, viewing the letter § as a mark of interro- 
gation, as if David, addressing his discourse to his enemies, 
asked whether they had completed their work of devasta- 
tion, even as they had resolved to destroy every thing ; for the 
verb 5M, tamam, signifies sometimes to complete, and some- 
times to put an end to any thing. And if we here take it in 
this sense, David, in the language of sarcasm or irony, re- 
bukes the foolish confidence of his enemies. Others, reading 
the verse without any interrogation, make the irony still 
more evident, and think that David describes, in these three 
verses, a twofold state of matters; that, in the first place, 
(verse 6,) he introduces his enemies persecuting him with 
savage violence, and persevering with determined obstinacy in 
their cruelty, so that it seemed to be their fixed purpose 
never to desist until the kingdom of David should be utterly 
destroyed; and that, in the second place, (verses 7, 8,) he 
represents God as seated on his judgment-seat, directly over 
against them, to repress their outrageous attempts. If this 
sense is admitted, the copulative, in the beginning of the 
seventh verse, which we have translated and, must be ren- 
dered by the adversative particle but, in this way: Thou, O 
enemy, didst seek after nothing except slaughter and the 


1% Demolished. The Hebrew word expresses the tearing up of the 
foundations of the buildings.” —Horsley. 


116 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


destruction of cities; but, at length, God has shown that he 
sits in heaven on his throne as judge, to put into proper order 
the things which are in confusion on the earth. According 
to others, David gives thanks to God, because, when the un- 
godly were fully determined to spread universal ruin around 
them, he put an end to their devastations. Others under- 
stand the words in a more restricted sense, as meaning that 
the desolations of the ungodly were completed, because God, 
in his just judgment, had made to fall upon their own heads 
the calamities and ruin which they had devised against 
David. According to others, David, in the 6th verse, com- 
plains that God had, for a long time, silently suffered the 
miserable devastation of his people, so that the ungodly, 
being left unchecked, wasted and destroyed all things accord- 
ing to their pleasure ; and in the seventh verse, they think he 
subjoins for his consolation that God, notwithstanding, pre- 
sides over human affairs. I have no objection to the view, 
that there is first described ironically how dreadful the 
power of the enemy was, when they put forth their highest 
efforts; and next, that there is set in opposition to it the 
judgment of God, which suddenly brought their proceedings 
to an abrupt termination, contrary to their expectation. 
They anticipated no such issue; for we know that the un- 
godly, although they may not presume openly to deprive 
God of his authority and dominion, yet run headlong to 
every excess of wickedness, not less boldly than if he were 
bound with fetters.._ We have taken notice of an almost 
similar manner of speaking in a preceding psalm, (vii. 13.) 
This contrast between the power of the enemies of God and 
his people, and the work of God in breaking up their proceed- 
ings, very well illustrates the wonderful character of the 
succour which he granted to his people. The ungodly had set 
to themselves no limit in the work of doing mischief, save in 
the utter destruction of all things, and at the commencement 
complete destruction seemed to be at hand; but when 
things were in this state of confusion, God seasonably made 


1 Que s'il avoit les pieds et mains liees."—Fr, “‘ Than if he were 
bound hand and foot.” 


PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 117 


his appearance for the help of his people.' As often, there- 
fore, as nothing but destruction presents itself to our view, 
to whatever side we may turn,’ let us remember to lift up 
our eyes to the heavenly throne, whence God beholds all 
that is done here below. In the world our affairs may 
have been brought to such an extremity, that there is no 
longer hope in regard to them; but the shield with which 
we ought to repel all the temptations by which we are 
assailed is this, that God, nevertheless, sits Judge in heaven. 
Yea, when he seems to take no notice of us, and does not 
immediately remedy the evils which we suffer, it becomes us 
to realise by faith his secret providence. The Psalmist says, 
in the first place, God sitteth for ever, by which he means, 
that however high the violence of men may be carried, and 
although their fury may burst forth without measure, they 
can never drag God from his seat. He farther means by 
this expression, that it is impossible for God to abdicate the 
office and authority of judge; a truth which he expresses 
more clearly in the second clause of the verse, He hath pre- 
pared his throne for judgment, in which he declares that God 
reigns not only for the purpose of making his majesty and 
glory surpassingly great, but also for the purpose of govern- 
ing the world in righteousness. 


8. And he shall judge the world in righteousness. As David 
has just now testified, that the power of God is not inac- 
tive, so that he dwells in heaven only indulging himself in 
pleasures; but that it is a constantly operating power which 
he exercises in preserving his authority, and governing the 
world in righteousness and equity; so in this verse he adds 
the use of this doctrine, which is this, that the power of God 
is not shut up in heaven, but manifests itself in succouring 
men. Thetrue doctrine on this subject is not, like Epicurus, 
to imagine that God is a being wholly devoted to ease and 
pleasures, and who, satisfied with himself alone, has no care 
whatever about mankind, but to place him on the throne of 
power and equity, so that we may be fully persuaded, that 


1 “ Dieu s’est monstré bien & propos pour secourir les siens.”—Fr. 
2 De quelque costé que nous-nous scachions tourner.”— Fr. 


118 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


although he does not immediately succour those who. are 
unrighteously oppressed, yet there is not a moment in which 
he ceases to take a deep interest in them. And when he 
seems for a time to take no notice of things, the conclusion 
to which we should come most assuredly is, not that he 
deserts his office, but that he wishes hereby to exercise the 
patience of his people, and that, therefore, we should wait the 
issue in patience, and with tranquillity of mind. The demon- 
strative pronoun He, in my opinion, is of great weight. The 
import of it is, as if David had said, No one can deprive God 
of his office as Judge of the world, nor prevent him from ex- 
tending his judgments to all nations. Whence it follows, 
that he will much more be the judge of his own people. 
David declares these judgments to be righteous, in order to 
induce us, when we are unrighteously and cruelly molested, 
to ask assistance from God, in the confident expectation of 
obtaining it ; for since he judges the nations in righteousness, 
he will not suffer injustice and oppression always to reign 
with impunity in the world, nor deny his aid to the inno- 
cent. 


9. And Jehovah will be a refuge to the poor, and a protection 

in seasonable times in trouble. ; 

10. And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: 
for thou forsakest not them that seek thee, O Jehovah. 

11. Sing unto Jehovah, who dwelleth in Sion, and proclaim his 
doings among the nations. 

12. For in requiring blood, he hath remembered it: he hath not 
forgotten the cry of the afflicted. 


9. And Jehovah will be a refuge for the poor. David here 
furnishes a remedy for the temptation which greatly afflicts 
the weak, when they see themselves, and those who are like 
them, abandoned to the will of the ungodly, while God 
keeps silence.’ He puts us in mind that God delays his aid, 
and to outward appearance forsakes his faithful ones, in 


1 “ Exposez a l’appetit et cruante des meschans, sans que Dieu face 
semblant d’en rien veoir ne scavoir.”—Fr. ‘ Exposed to the desire and 
cruelty of the wicked, while God seems neither to see nor to know any 
thing about it.” 


PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 119 


order at length to succour them at a more conyenient season, 
according to the greatness of their necessity and affliction. 
From this it follows, that he by no means ceases from the 
exercise of his office, although he suffer the good and the 
innocent to be reduced to extreme poverty, and although 
he exercise them with weeping and lamentations; for by 
doing this he lights up a lamp to enable them to see his 
judgments the more clearly. Accordingly, David expressly 
declares, that God interposes his protection seasonably in 
the afflictions of his people. The Lord will be a protection to 
the poor in seasonable times in trouble. From this we are 
taught the duty of giving his providence time to make itself 
at length manifest in the season of need. And if protection 
by the power of God, and the experience of his fatherly 
favour, is the greatest blessing which we can receive, let us 
not feel so uneasy at being accounted poor and miserable 
before the world, but let this consolatory consideration 
assuage our grief, that God is not far from us, seeing our 
afflictions call upon him to come to our aid. Let us also 
observe, that God is said to be at hand in seasonable times 
when he succours the faithful during their affliction! The 
Hebrew word 9¥3, datsarah, which occurs in the end of 
the 9th verse, is understood by some as if it were the simple 
word which signifies defence ; but here they render it meta- 
phorically distress, denoting those trying circumstances in 
which a person is so closely shut up, and reduced to such 
extremity, that he can find no escape. I, however, think there 
is more probability in the opinion of those who take 9, the 
first letter of A7¥3, batsarah, as a servile letter meaning in, 
which is its ordinary signification.?, What is here said, then, 
is, that God assists his own people in the time of need, 
namely, in affliction, or when they are weighed down with it, 
for then assistance is most necessary and most useful. 

In the tenth verse, the Psalmist teaches us, that when the 


1 “ Notons aussi que Dieu est dit estre prest en temps opportun quand 
il subvient aux fideles lors qu’ils sont eitetts: —Fr. 

# “ In critical times, mny>, leitoth ; in [the season of] distress, ma, bat- 
sarah, ‘32 is the substantive mx, under its own ee eae 3, and is 
not so well rendered as a genitive following mny.”—Horsley 


120 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


Lord delivers the righteous, the fruit which results from it 
is, that they themselves, and all the rest of the righteous, 
acquire increasing confidence in his grace ; for, unless we are 
fully persuaded that God exercises a care about men and 
human affairs, we must necessarily be troubled with constant 
disquietude. But as most men shut their eyes that they 
may not see the judgments of God, David restricts this 
advantage to the faithful alone, and, certainly, where there is 
no godliness, there is no sense of the works of God. It is 
also to be observed, that he attributes to the faithful the 
hnowledge of God; because from this religion proceeds, whereas 
it is extinguished through the ignorance and stupidity of 
men. Many take the name of God simply for God himself; 
but, as I have observed in my remarks on a preceding psalm, 
I think something more is expressed by thisterm. As God’s 
essence is hidden and incomprehensible, his name just means 
his character, so far as he has been pleased to make it known 
tous. David next explains the ground of this trust in God to 
be, that he does not forsake those who seek him. God is 
sought in two ways, either by invocation and prayers, or by 
studying to live a holy and an upright life; and, indeed, the 
one is always inseparably joined with the other. But as the 
Psalmist is here treating of the protection of God, on which 
the safety of the godly depends, to seek God, as I under- 
stand it, is to betake ourselves to him for help and relief in 
danger and distress. 


11. Sing unto Jehovah. David, not contented with giving 
thanks individually, and on his own account, exhorts the 
faithful to unite with him in praising God, and to do this 
not only because it is their duty to stir up one another to 
this religious exercise, but because the deliverances of which 
he treats were worthy of being publicly and solemnly cele- 
brated; and this is expressed more clearly in the second 
clause, where he commands them to be published among the 
nations. The meaning is, that they are not published or 
celebrated as they deserve, unless the whole world is filled 
with the renown of them. To proclaim God’s doings among 
the nations was indeed, as it were, to sing to the deaf; but 


‘PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 121 


by this manner of speaking, David intended to show that the 
territory of Judea was too narrow to contain the infinite 
greatness of Jehovah’s praises. He gives God this title, He 
who dwelleth in Sion, to distinguish him from all the false 
. gods of the Gentiles. There is in the phrase a tacit com- 
parison between the God who made his covenant with Abra- 
ham and Israel, and all the gods who, in every other part of 
the world except Judea, were worshipped according to the 
blinded and depraved fancies of men. It is not enough for 
persons to honour and reverence some deity indiscriminately 
or at random; they must distinctly yield to the only living 
and true God the worship which belongs to him, and which 
he commands. Moreover, as God had particularly chosen 
Sion as the place where his name might be called upon, 
David very properly assigns it to him as his peculiar dwell- 
ing-place, not that it is lawful to attempt to shut up, in any 
particular place, Him whom “the heaven of heavens cannot 
contain,” (1 Kings viii.;) but because, as we shall afterwards 
see, (Ps. cxxxii. 12,) he had promised to make it his rest for 
ever. David did not, according to his own fancy, assign God a 
dwelling-place there; but he understood, by a revelation 
from heaven, that such was the pleasure of God himself, as 
Moses had often predicted, (Deut. xii.) This goes far to 
prove what I have said before, that this psalm was not com 

posed upon the occasion of David’s victory over Goliath ; for 
it was only towards the close of David’s reign that the ark 
of the covenant was removed to Sion according to the com- 
mandment of God. The conjecture of some that David 
spake by the Spirit of prophecy of the residence of the ark 
on Sion, as a future event, appears to me to be unnatural and 
forced. Farther, we see that the holy fathers, when they 
resorted to Sion to offer sacrifices to God, did not act 
merely according to the suggestion of their own minds; but 
what they did proceeded from faith in the word of God, and 
was done in obedience to his command; and they were, 
therefore, approved of by him for their religious service. 
Whence it follows, that there is no ground whatever to make 
use of their example as an argument or excuse for the religious 
observances which superstitious men have, by their own fancy, 


122 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


invented for themselves. Besides, it was not enough for 
the faithful, in those days, to depend upon the word of God, 
and to engage in those ceremonial services which he re- 
quired, unless, aided by external symbols, they elevated 
their minds above these, and yielded to God spiritual wor- 
ship. God, indeed, gave real tokens of his presence in that 
visible sanctuary, but not for the purpose of binding the 
senses and thoughts of his people to earthly elements; he 
wished rather that these external symbols should serve as 
ladders, by which the faithful might ascend even to heaven. 
The design of God from the commencement in the appoint- 
ment of the sacraments, and all the outward exercises of reli- 
gion, was to consult the infirmity and weak capacity of his 
people. Accordingly, even at the present day, the true and 
proper use of them is, to assist us in seeking God spiritually 
in his heavenly glory, and not to occupy our minds with the 
things of this world, or keep them fixed in the vanities of 
the flesh, a subject which we shall afterwards have a more 
suitable opportunity of discussing more fully. And as the 
Lord, in ancient times, when he called himself, He who dwell- 
eth in Sion, intended to give his people full and solid ground 
of trust, tranquillity, and joy; so even now, after the law 
has come out of Sion, and the covenant of grace has flowed 
to us from that fountain, let us know and be fully persuaded, 
that wherever the faithful, who worship him purely and in due 
form, according to the appointment of his word, are assembled 
together to engage in the solemn acts of religious worship, 
he is graciously present, and presides in the midst of them. 


12. For in requiring blood. In the original, it is bloods, in the 
plural number, and, therefore, the relative which follows im- 
mediately after, And remembereth THEM, may very properly be 
referred to that word in this way, He requireth bloods, and 
remembereth them. But as it is sufficiently common in He- 
brew to invert the order of the antecedent and the relative, 
and to put them before the word to which it refers,’ some 
explain it of the poor, thus: In requiring blood, he hath 


1“ Et de mettre Eux, devant le mot auquel il se rapporte.”—Fr. 


PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 123 


remembered them, namely, the poor, of whom he speaks a little 
after. As to the sum and substance of the matter, it is of small 
importance in which of these ways we explain the relative; 


but the former is, in my view, the more natural explanation. 


There is here a repetition of what the Psalmist had said a little 
before, that we ought especially to consider God’s power, as 
it is manifested in the mercy which he exercises towards his 
servants, who are unrighteously persecuted by wicked men. 
From the numerous works of God, he selects one which he 
commends as especially worthy of being remembered, namely, 
his work in delivering the poor from death. God sometimes 
leaves them in his holy providence to be persecuted by men ; 
but at length he takes vengeance for the wrongs inflicted 
upon them. The words which David uses denote a con- 
tinued act ; but I have no doubt that he intends from those 
examples, which he has related in’ the preceding part of the 
psalm, to lead men to acknowledge that God requireth inno- 
cent blood, and remembers the cry of his people. 

He again insists on what I adverted to before, that God 
does not always put a stop to injuries so speedily as we 
would wish, nor break the attempts of the wicked at the 
first, but rather withholds and delays his assistance, so that 


_ it may seem that we cry to him in vain, a truth which it is 


of importance for us to understand; for if we measure the 
help of God according to our senses, our courage will ever 
and anon fail us, and in the end our hope will be entirely 
extinguished, and will give place to despondency and despair. 
We would fondly wish him, as I have said, to stretch forth 
his hand to a distance, and drive back the troubles which he 
sees to be. prepared for us; yet he seems to take no notice, 
and does not prevent the blood of the innocent from being 
shed. Let this consolatory consideration, however, sustain 
us, that he will at length actually show how precious our 
blood was in his sight. If it is objected, that God’s assist- 
ance comes too late, after we have endured all calamities, I 
answer, God delays to interfere no longer than he knows it 
to be of advantage for us to be humbled under the cross, and 
if he chooses rather to take vengeance after we have suffered 
outrage, than to aid us previous to the infliction of evil, it is 


124 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


not because he is not always willing and ready to succour 
us ; but because he knows it is not always a proper time for 
manifesting his grace. By the way, it is a striking evidence, 
not only of his fatherly love towards us, but of the blessed 
immortality which is the portion of all the children of God, 
that he has a care about them even after they are dead. 
Were he always by his grace to prevent affliction from be- 
falling us, who is there amongst us who would not be wholly 
attached to the present life? When, however, he avenges 
our death, from this it appears that, though dead, we still 
remain alive in his presence. For he does not, after the 
manner of men, hold in estimation the memory of those 
whom he could not preserve alive,’ but he actually shows 
that he cherishes in his bosom, and gives protection to those 
who seem to be no more, viewing them according to the 
flesh. And this is the reason why David says that he 
remembereth blood when he requireth it; for, although he 
may not presently deliver his servants from the swords of the 
wicked, yet he suffers not their murder to pass unpunished. 
To the same purpose is the last clause, He forgetteth not the 
cry of the afflicted. God may not show, by granting instant 
deliverance or relief, that he lends an immediate ear to the 
complaints of his servants; but at length he proves un- 
answerably that he has regarded them. Express mention is 
made of crying, to encourage all who desire to experience 
God as their deliverer and protector, to direct their wishes, 
groanings, and prayers to him. 


13. Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah, see my affliction which I 
suffer from those who persecute me, thou that liftest me up 
from the gates of death. 

14. That I may recount all thy praises in the gates of the 
daughter of Sion ; and that I may rejoice in thy salvation, 


13. Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah. I think that this is 


1“ Car ce n’est pas qu’il face comme les hommes qui auront en estime 
et reverence apres la mort la memoire de leurs amis quand ils ne leur 
ont peu sauver la vie."—Fr. “ For he does not act like men, who hold 
in estimation and reverence after death the memory of their friends, when 
they can no longer preserve their life.” 


ae — 


PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 125 


the second part of the psalm. Others, however, are of a 
different opinion, and consider that David, according to his 
frequent practice, while giving thanks to God for the deli- 
verance wrought for him, mingles with his thanksgiving an 
account of what had been the matter of his prayer in the 
extremity of his distress; and examples of the same kind, I 
confess, are every where to be met with in the Psalms. But 
when I consider all the circumstances more attentively, I 
am constrained to incline to the other opinion, namely, that 
in the commencement he celebrated the favours conferred 
upon him in order to make way for prayer; and the psalm 
is at last concluded with a prayer. He does not, therefore, 
in passing here insert the prayers which he had formerly 
made in the midst of his dangers and anxieties; but he pur- 
posely implores help from God at the present time,’ and 
asks that He, whom he had often experienced as his deliverer, 
would continue the exercise of the same grace towards him. 
His enemies, perhaps, whom he had already vanquished on 
various occasions, having gathered new courage, and raised 
new forces, made a desperate effort, as we often see those 
who are driven to despair rush upon their enemies just with 
the greater impetuosity and rage. It is indeed certain, that 
Dayid, when he offered this prayer, was seized with the 
greatest fear; for he would not, on account of a small matter, 
have called upon God to witness his affliction in the way he 
here does. It ought to be observed, that while he humbly 
betakes himself to the mercy of God, he bears, with a patient 


1 “ Tn the 12th verse,” says Horsley, ‘‘ the Psalmist having mentioned 
it as a part of the divine character, that God forgetteth not the cry of the 
h naturally thinks upon his own helpless state, and in the 13th 
and 14th verses cries for deliverance. The promise of the overthrow of 
the faction, which were the principal instruments of his affliction, recur- 

ing to his thoughts, he breaks out again in the 15th verse in strains of 
exultation.” The transition from the language of triumph, in the pre- 
ing part of the psalm, to the language of prayer and complaint in the 
13th verse, and the mixture of triumph and complaint in the sequel of the 
psalm, are very remarkable. This was the natural effect of the Psalmist’s 
present distressed condition. The pressure of his affliction excited him, 
on the one hand, to utter the lan of dejection ; while his confident 
expectation of deliverance prompted him, on the other hand, to utter the 
language of triumph. 


126 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


and submissive mind, the cross which was laid upon him.* 
But we ought chiefly to mark the title which he gives 
to God, calling him his lifter up from the gates of death ; for 
we could not find a more appropriate expression than to lift 
up for the Hebrew word TM]p\, meromem. By this the 
Psalmist, in the first place, strengthens his faith from his 
past experience, inasmuch as he had often been delivered 
from the greatest dangers. And, in the second place, he as- 
sures himself of deliverance, even in the very jaws of death; 
because God is accustomed not only to succour his servants, 
and to deliver them from their calamities by ordinary means, 
but also to bring them from the grave, even after all hope of 
life is cut off; for the gates of death is a metaphorical expres- 
sion, denoting the utmost perils which threaten destruction, 
or rather, which lay the grave open before us. In order, 
therefore, that neither the weight of the calamities which we 
presently endure, nor the fear of those which we see impend- 
ing over us, may overwhelm our faith, or interrupt our 
prayers, let us call to our remembrance that the office of 
lifting up his people from the gates of death is not ascribed 
to God in vain. 


14. That I may recount. David’s meaning simply is, that 
he will celebrate the praises of God in all assemblies, and, 
wherever there is the greatest concourse of people, (for at 
that time it was the custom to hold assemblies at the gates 
of cities ;) but, at the same time, there seems to be an allu- 
sion to the gates of death, of which he has just spoken, as 
if he had said, After I am delivered from the graye, I will do 
my endeavour to bear testimony, in the most public man- 
ner, to the goodness of God, manifested in my deliverance. 
As, however, it is not sufficient to utter the praises of God 
with our tongues, if they do not proceed from the heart, the 
Psalmist, in the last clause of the verse, expresses the inward 

1 “ Or il faut noter que quand il ya humblement an recours a la miseri- 
corde de Dieu, c’est signe qu'il portoit doucement et emment la 
croix que Dieu luy avoir comme mise sur les espaules.”—Fr, “ But it 
ought to be observed, that, while he humbly betakes himself to the 


of God, it is a sign that he bore, submissively and patiently, the cross 
which God had, as it were, laid upon his shoulders.” 


- 


- 


. 
| 
. 
| 
: 





PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 127 


_ joy with which he would engage in this exercise, And that I 


may rejoice in thy salvation; as if he had said, I desire 
to live in this world for no other purpose than to rejoice in 
having been preserved by the grace of God. Under the 
name of daughter, as is well known, the Jews meant a people 
or city, but he here names the city from its principal part, 
namely, Sion. 


15. The heathen are sunk into the pit which they made; in the 
net which they have hid are their own feet taken. 

16. Jehovah is known by executing judgment. The wicked is 
snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah. 


15. The heathen are sunk. David being now raised up to 
holy confidence, triumphs over his enemies. In the first 
place, he says metaphorically, that they were taken in their 
own craftiness and snares. He next expresses the same 
thing without figure, that they were snared in their own 
wickedness. And he affirms that this happened not by 
chance, but was the work of God, and a striking proof of his 
judgment. When he compares his enemies to hunters or 
fowlers, it is not without having just ground for doing so. 
The wicked, it is true, often commit violence and outrage, 


yet in deceits and cunning artifices they always imitate their 


father Satan, who is the father of lies, and, therefore, what- 
eyer ingenuity they have, they employ it in practising 
wickedness and in devising mischief. As often, therefore, 
as wicked men cunningly plot our destruction, let us re- 
member that it is no new thing for them to lay nets and 
snares for the children of God. At the same time, let us 
comfort ourselves from the reflection, that whatever they 
may attempt against us, the issue is not in their power, and 
that God will be against them, not only to frustrate their 
designs, but also to surprise them in the wicked devices 
which they frame, and to make all their resources of mischief 
to fall upon their own heads. 


16. The Lord is known in executing judgment. The reading of 
the words literally is this, The known Lord has done judgment. 


~ 


128 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM 1 


This manner of speech is abrupt, and its very brevity rer 
ders it obscure. It is therefore explained in two way 
Some explain it thus:—God begins then to be known whe 
he punishes the wicked. But the other sense suits the pas 
age better, namely, that it is a thing obvious and manife: 
to all that God executes the office of judge, as often as | 
ensnares the wicked in their own maliciousness. In shor 
whenever God turns back upon themselves whatever scheme 
of mischief they devise, David declares that in this eas 
the divine judgment is so evident, that what happens ea 
be ascribed neither to nature nor to fortune. If God, ther 
fore, in this way manifestly display, at any time, the powe 
of his hand, let us learn to open our eyes, that from th 
judgments which he executes upon the enemies of his Chure 
our faith may be confirmed more and more. As to th 
word Higgaion, which properly signifies meditation, 1 cannc 
at present assign a better reason why it has been inserte 
than this, that David intended to fix the minds of the godl 
in meditation upon the judgments of God. The word Sela 
was intended to answer the same purpose, and as I have sai 
before, regulated the singing in such a manner as to mak 
the music correspond to the words and the sentiment. 


17. The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations tha 
forget God. 

18. For the poor shall not always be forgotten ; the hope of th 
humble shall not perish for ever. 


17. The wiched shall be turned into hell. Many translat 
the verb in the optative mood, Let the wicked be turned ints 
hell, as if it were an imprecation. But, in my judgment 
David here rather confirms himself and all the godly wit! 
respect to the future, declaring that whatever the wicker 
may attempt, it will have a termination disastrous to them- 
selves. By the word turn he means that the issue will bi 
far otherwise than what they imagine; for there is implied i ir 
it a tacit contrast between the height of their presumption anc 
the depth of their fall. As they have no fear of God, they 
exalt themselves above the clouds; and then, as if they hac 


PSALM IX, THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 129 


“made a covenant with death,” according to the language 
of Isaiah, (ch. xxviii. 15,) they become so much the more 
arrogant and presumptuous. But when we see them raging 
without apprehension of danger, the prophet warns us that 
their madness carries them headlong, so that, at length, they 
fall into the grave, from which they thought themselves to 
be a great way off. Here, then, is described to us the sud- 
den and unexpected change, by which God, when he pleases, 
restores to order things which were in confusion. When, 
therefore, we see the wicked flying aloft devoid of all fear, 
let us, by the eyes of faith, behold the grave which is pre- 
pared for them ; and rest assured that the hand of God, 
although it is unseen, is very near, which can turn them 
back in the midst of their course in which they aim at reach- 
ing heaven, and make them tumble into hell in a moment. 
The meaning of the Hebrew word sb, sheolah, is 
doubtful, but I have not hesitated to translate it hell.’ I 
do not find fault with those who translate it the grave, but it 
is certain that the prophet means something more than com- 
mon death, otherwise he would here say nothing else with 
respect to the wicked than what would also happen to all the 
faithful in‘common with them. Though then, he does not speak 
in express terms of eternal destruction, but only says, They 
shall be turned into the grave, yet, under the metaphor of the 
grave, he intimates that all the ungodly shall perish, and that 
the presumption with which, by every unlawful means, they 
raise themselves on high to trample righteousness under foot, 
and to oppress the innocent, shall bring upon them ruin and 
perdition. The faithful, also, it is true, descend into the 
grave, but not with such fearful violence as plunges them 
into it without hope of coming out again. So far is this 
from being the case, that even when shut up in the grave, 
they dwell already in heaven by hope. 


18. For the poor shall not always be forgotten. ‘The asser- 


1 “Le mot Hebrieu, pour lequel nous avons traduit En/fer signifie 
aussi hre ; mais j’ay mieux aimé retenir ceste signification.”—Fr. 
** The Hebrew word which we have translated hell also signifies the grave ; 
but I have preferred to retain the former meaning of the word.” 


VOL. I. I 


130 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


tion that God will not forsake the poor and afflicted for ever, 
isa confirmation of the preceding sentence. By it he intimates, 
that they may indeed seem to be forsaken for a time. Let 
us, therefore, remember that God has promised his assistance 
to us, not in the way of preventing our afflictions, but of at 
length succouring us after we have been long subdued under 
the cross. David speaks expressly of hope or expectation, 
thereby to encourage us to prayer. The reason why God 
seems to take no notice of our afflictions is, because he would 
have us to awaken him by means of our prayers; for when 
he hears our requests, (as if he began but then to be mindful 
of us,) he stretches forth his powerful hand to help us. 
David again repeats that this is not done immediately, in 
order that we may persevere in hoping well, even although 
our expectations may not be instantly gratified. 


19. Arise, O Jehovah ; let not man' prevail ; let the nations be 
judged in thy sight. 

20. Put them in fear, O Jehovah ; that the nations may know 
that they are men. 


19. Arise, O Jehovah. When David beseeches God to 
arise, the expression does not strictly apply to God, but it 
refers to external appearance and to our senses; for we do 
not perceive God to be the deliverer of his people except 
when he appears before our eyes, as it were sitting upon the 
judgment-seat. There is added a consideration or reason to 
induce God to avenge the injuries done to his people, namely, 
that man may not prevail ; for when God arises, all the fierce- 
ness? of the ungodly must immediately fall down and give 
way. Whence is it that the wicked become so audaciously 
insolent, or have so great power to work mischief, if it is not 
because God is still, and gives them loose reins? But, as 
soon as he shows some token of his judgment, he immediately 
puts a stop to their proud tumults,’ and breaks their strength 
and power with his nod alone. We are taught, by this 


1 “ T*homme mortel.”—/Fr. ‘* Mortal man.” 

2 “ Toute la fierte et arrogance.”—Fr. ‘ All the pride and arrogance.” 
8 “* Leur rage et insolence.”"—/r. ** Their rage and insolence.” 

4 * Solo nutu.” Lat. “ En faisant signe seulement du bout du doigt.”—Fr. 





PSALM IX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 131 


manner of praying, that however insolently and proudly our 
enemies may boast of what they will do, yet they are in the 
hand of God, and can do no more than what he permits 
them; and farther, that God can doubtless, whenever he 
pleases, render all their endeavours vain and ineffectual. 
The Psalmist, therefore, in speaking of them, calls them man. 
The word in the original is Y\}N, enosh, which is derived 
from a root signifying misery or wretchedness, and, accord- 
ingly, it is the same thing as if he had called them mortal or 
frail man. Farther, the Psalmist beseeches God to judge the 
heathen before his face. God is said to do this when he com- 
pels them, by one means or another, to appear before his 
judgment-seat. We know that unbelievers, until they are 
dragged by force into the presence of God, turn their backs 
upon him as much as they can, in order to exclude from 
their minds all thought of him as their Judge. 


20. Put them in fear, O Jehovah. The Septuagint trans- 
lates FWY, morah, [voucSérnc,| a lawgiver, deriving it from 
mM; yarah, which sometimes signifies to teach.1 But the 
scope of the passage requires that we should understand it 
of fear or dread ; and this is the opinion of all sound expo- 
sitors. Now, itis to be considered of what kind of fear David 
speaks. God commonly subdues even his chosen ones to 
obedience by means of fear. But as he moderates his rigour 
towards them, and, at the same time, softens their stony 
hearts, so that they willingly and quietly submit themselves 
to him, he cannot be properly said to compel them by fear. 
With respect to the reprobate, he takes a different way of 
dealing. As their obduracy is inflexible, so that it is easier 


1 The Chaldee version reads fear, but the Syriac, Ethiopic, and Vul- 
gate versions follow the Septuagint. The Arabic employs a word of 
nearly the same import, signifying a doctor or teacher of the law. In 
Coverdale’s Bible it 1s, “‘ O Lord, set a schoolmaster over them.” Augus- 
tine and Jerome, who adopted the reading of the Septuagint, render the 
words, ‘* Set, O Lord, a lawgiver over them ;” and it was their opinion that 
lawgiver means antichrist, to whom God in his wrath gave dominion over 
the nations. According to others, lawgiver means Christ. Dr Horsley 

“* O Jehovah, appoint thou a er over them.” Ainsworth and 
Dr Adam Clarke adopt the same rendering, and view the words as a 
prayer that the nations may learn humility and piety, that they may know 
their accountability to and become wise unto salvation. 


132 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM IX. 


to break than to bend them, he subdues their desperate 
obstinacy by force ; not, indeed, that they are reformed, but, 
whether they will or no, an acknowledgment of their own 
weakness is extorted from them. They may gnash their 
teeth and boil with rage, and even exceed in cruelty wild 
beasts, but when the dread of God seizes upon them, they are 
thrown down with their own violence, and fall with their 
own weight. Some explain these words as a prayer that 
God would bring the nations under the yoke of David, and 
make them tributaries to his government ; but this is a cold 
and forced explanation. The word fear comprehends in 
general all the plagues of God, by which is repulsed, as by 
the heavy blows of a hammer,! the rebellion of those who 
would never obey him except by compulsion. 

- There follows next the point to which the nations must be 
brought, namely, to acknowledge themselves to be mortal 
men. This, at first sight, seems to be a matter of small im- 
portance ; but the doctrine which it contains is far from 
being trifling. What is man, that he dares of himself to move 
a finger? And yet all the ungodly run to excess as boldly 
and presumptuously as if there were nothing to hinder them 
from doing whatever they please. It is certainly through a 
distempered imagination that they claim to themselves what 
is peculiar to God; and, in short, they would never run to so 
great excess if they were not ignorant of their own condi- 
tion. David, when he beseeches God to strike the nations 
with terror, that they may know that they are men,’ does not 
mean that the ungodly will profit so much under the rods 
and chastisements of God as to humble themselves truly and 
from the heart; but the knowledge of which he speaks just 
means an experience of their own weakness. His language 
is as if he had said, Lord, since it is their ignorance of them- 
selves which hurries them into their rage against me, make 
them actually to experience that their strength is not equal 


1 “ Tous fleax de Dieu par lesquels est rembarre comme a grans coups 
de marteau.”—Fr, 

* The original word is ex, enosh ; and therefore it is a prayer that they 
may know themselves to be but miserable, frail, and dying men. The 
word is in the singular number, but it is used collectively. 





PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 133 


to their infatuated presumption, and after they are disap- 
pointed of their vain hopes, let them lie confounded and 
abased with shame. It may often happen that those who are 
convinced of their own weakness do not yet reform ; but much 
is gained when their ungodly presumption is exposed to 
mockery and scorn before the world, that it may appear 
how ridiculous was the confidence which they presumed to 
place in their own strength. With respect to the chosen of 
God, they ought to profit under his chastisements after an- 
other manner. It becomes them to be humbled under a 
sense of their own weakness, and willingly to divest them- 
selves of all vain confidence and presumption. And this will 
be the case if they remember that they are but men. Au- 
gustine has well and wisely said, that the whole humility of 
man consists in the knowledge of himself. Moreover, since 
pride is natural to all, God requires to strike terror into all 
men indiscriminately, that, on the one hand, his own people 
may learn to be humble, and that, on the other hand, the 
wicked, although they cease not to elevate themselves above 
the condition of man, may be put back with shame and 
confusion. 


PSALM X. 


David here complains, in his own name, and in the name of all the godly, 
that fraud, extortion, cruelty, violence, and all kind of injustice, pre- 
vailed every where in the world; and the cause which he assigns 
for this is, that ungodly and wicked men, being intoxicated with 
their prosperity, have shaken off all fear of God, and think they may 
do whatever they please with impunity. Accordingly, he earnestly 
beseeches God to help him, and to remedy his desperate calamities. 
In the close, he comforts himself and the rest of the faithful with the hope 
of obtaining deliverance in due time. This description represents, as 
in a mirror, a lively image of a widely corrupt and disorganised state 
of society. When, therefore, we see iniquity breaking out like a flood, 
that the strangeness of such a temptation may not shake the faith of the 


134 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X. 


children of God and catise them to fall into despair, let them learn 
to look into this mirror. It tends greatly to lighten grief, to consider 
that nothing befalls us at this day which the Church of God has not 
experienced in the days of old; yea, rather that we are just called to 
engage in the same conflicts with which David and the other holy 
patriarchs were exercised. Farther, the faithful are admonished to 
have recourse to God in such a confused state of things ; for unless 
they are convinced that it belongs to God to succour them, and to remedy 
such a state of matters, they will gain nothing by indulging in confused 
murmurings, and rending the air with their cries and complaints. 


1, Why standest thou afar off, O Jehovah? and winkest at 
seasonable times in trouble ?} 

2. The ungodly in his pride doth persecute the poor ;* let them 
be caught in the devices’ which they imagine. 


1. Lord, why standest thou afar off? We here see how the 
prophet, seeking a remedy for his calamities, which were 
apparently past hope, directly addresses himself to God at 
the very commencement. And the rule which we should 
observe, when we are in trouble and sorrow, is this: We 
should seek comfort and solace in the providence of God; 
for amidst our agitations, vexations, and cares, we ought to 
be fully persuaded that it is his peculiar office to give relief 
to the wretched and afflicted. It is in an improper sense, 
and by anthropathy,‘ that the Psalmist speaks of God as 


1 “Et te caches au temps que sommes en tribulation ?”—Fr. “ And 
hidest thyself when we are in trouble ?”—Heb. “ Aux opportunitez, ou, 
aux temps opportuns.”—Fr. marg. “ In opportunities, or, at seasonable 
times.” 

2 “ Ou, le poure est persecuté, ou, il brusle en l’orgueil des meschans.” 
—Fr. marg. “ Or, the poor is persecuted ; or, he burns in the pride of 
the wicked.” 

% Horsley reads “ subtleties,” and observes in a note, “I choose this 
ambiguous word ; being in doubt whether the petition against the wicked 
be that they may be ruined by their own stratagems against the righteous, 
or that they may be the dupes of their own atheistical speculations upon 
moral and religious subjects. It seems to me that the word mm», may 
signify either ‘ crafty tricks,’ or ‘refined theories,’ and, in this latter 
sense, it is used in the fourth verse.” Horsley considers this psalm as a 
general description of the oppression of the righteous by apostate spirits, 
atheists, and ‘dolaters, who have all conspired against them, and not as re- 
ferring to any particular calamity of the fewish nation, or of any individual. 

4 “ C’est quand nous attribuons & Dieu les passions, affections, et fa- 
cons de faire des hommes.”—Fr. marg. “ That is, when we attribute to 
God the passions, affections, and manners of men.” 





PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 135 


standing afar off. Nothing can be hid from his eyes; but as 
God permits us to speak to him as we do to one another, these 
forms of expression do not contain any thing absurd, pro- 
yided we understand them as applied to God, not in a strict 
sense, but only figuratively, according to the judgment which 
mere sense forms from the present appearance of things. It 
is possible that a righteous man may not check an injury 
which is done to a poor man before his eyes, because he is 
destitute of the power; but this cannot be the case with 
respect to God, who is always armed with invincible power. 
If, therefore, he act as if he took no notice, it is the same as 
if he withdrew himself afar off. The word cyn, taelim, 
which signifies to hide, is explained in two ways. According 
to some, Dayid here complains of God for hiding himself, as 
if he accounted the care of human affairs beneath him. 
Others understand it as meaning ¢o shut the eyes; and this 
appears to me to be the more simple view. It is to be 
observed, that although David here complains that God 
kept himself afar off, he was, notwithstanding, fully persuaded 
of his presence with him, otherwise it would have been in 
yain to have called upon him for aid. The interrogation 
which he employs is to this effect : Lord, since it is thy pre- 
rogative to govern the world, and also to regulate it by thy 
righteousness as thou sustainest it by thy power, why is it that 
thou dost not more quickly show thyself a defender of thine 
own people against the arrogance and incredible pride of the 
ungodly ? David, however, speaks thus not so much in the 
way of complaining, as to encourage himself in the confidence 
of obtaining what he desired. Through the infirmity of sense, 
he says, that it is unbecoming of God to cease so long from 
executing his office; and yet, at the same time, he fails not 
to yield to him the honour which is his due, and by his 
prayers he deposits into his bosom the great burden of 
trouble with which he was laden. The expression which 
follows, at needful times, relates to the same subject. Although 
God may not stretch forth his hand to take vengeance! at 
every moment, yet when he beholds the simple and inno- 


1 “ Pour faire vengence.”—IF'r. 


136 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X. 


cent oppressed, it is not time for him to defer any longer. 
David briefly defines the fit time for putting the hand to 
the work to be when the faithful are in distress. Of this 
form of speech we have spoken in the preceding psalm, at 
the tenth verse. 


2. The ungodly in his pride, §c. Before uttering his prayer 
against the ungodly, the Psalmist briefly sets forth their 
wickedness in cruelly vexing the afflicted, for no other reason 
but because they disdain and despise them, through the pride 
with which they are inflated. And their cruelty is not a little 
enhanced from this, that, forgetful of all humanity, they con- 
temptuously triumph over the poor and afflicted, mocking 
them and inflicting injuries upon them.! Cruelty is, indeed, 
always proud, yea, rather, pride is the mother of all wrongs ; 
for if a man did not through pride magnify himself above 
his neighbours, and through an overweening conceit of him- 
self despise them, even common humanity would teach us 
with what humility and justice we ought to conduct our- 
selves towards each other. But David here intended to 
state that the only cause why the ungodly, whom he accuses, 
exercise their cruelty against the wretched and the needy, 
from whom they receive no provocation, is the pride and 
arrogance of their own spirits. Let every one, therefore, 
who desires to live justly and unblameably with his brethren, 
beware of indulging or taking pleasure in treating others dis- 
dainfully ; and let him endeavour, above all things, to have 
his mind freed from the disease of pride. The word pon, da- 
lak, signifies to suffer persecution, as well as to persecute ; 
and, therefore, some prefer translating the words, The poor 
is persecuted in the pride of the ungodly. They may also not 
improperly be rendered thus, The poor burns in the pride of 
the ungodly,’ because this is the more common signification of 


1 “ En se mocquant d’eux et les outrageant.”—Fr. 

* “ohn, dalak, signifies two things, to persecute, and to be set on fire ; and 
though we render it in the former sense, and so apply it to yes, rasha, 
the wicked, in the active tense,—the wicked persecutes the poor,—yet the 
ancient interpreters generally render it in the passive, and apply it to sy, 
anay, the poor, that in the pride of the wicked he is set on fire, that is, 
brought into great tribulation.”"—-Hammond. The word used by the 








_ PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. _ 137 


‘the word. The pride of the wicked, like fire, devours the 
poor and afflicted. 


3. For the ungodly praiseth himself on account of the desire of 
his own soul; and the violent man blesseth himself ; he 
_despiseth Jehovah. 
4, The ungodly, in the pride of his countenance,’ inquireth not : 
all his devices say, There is no God. 


3. For the ungodly praiseth himself. This verse is variously 
explained. Literally the reading is, For praiseth the wicked 
or ungodly; and it is therefore necessary to supply some 
word, but what word is disputed.? Some translate the words, 
ungodly and violent man, in the accusative case, thus: He 
praiseth the ungodly, and blesseth the violent man; because 
they think it strange that after “praiseth” the sentence should 
end abruptly, without any thing being said of who or what 
was praised. But since it is quite common in Hebrew, when 
the agent and the subject are one and the same person, to 
express the word only once, while we repeat it in order to 
complete the sense,’ the interpretation which I have followed 
appears to me the most proper, namely, that the ungodly 
man praises himself, and boasts of the desire of his soul, and 
blesses himself. Now, it may be asked, What is this desire 

of soul? Tt is usually understood in this sense, that the un- 
godly flatter and applaud themselves, while fortune smiles on 
them, and they obtain their wishes, and enjoy whatever they 
desire; just as David adds, a little after, that they abuse their 
prosperity, in attempting whatever comes into their fancy. 
But, in my opinion, desire of soul here denotes rather lust, 
and the intemperate gratification of passion and appetite ; 
and thus the meaning is, that they indulge themselves with 


Se int is twave:Céras:. There may be an allusion in the Hebrew word 
to the which persecutors have kindled for burning to death the con- 
fessors and martyrs of Christ. 

1 “ Tn altitudine naris ;’—literally, ‘In the height of his nose.” This 
also is the literal rendering of the Hebrew text, “ The nose and casting up 
of it signifies a proud, scornful, and sometimes an angry countenance.”— 

insworth 


Sp | ya mot & mot, Car loué le meschant et il y faut suppleer quelque 
petit mot: or, cela on y besongne diversement.”—Fr. 
8 “ On la repete pour parfaire le sense.”—Fr. 


138 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X. 


delight in their depraved desires, and, despising the judg- 
ment of God, fearlessly absolve themselves from all guilt, 
maintain their innocence,! and justify their impiety. Moses 
uses a similar form of expression in Deut. xxix. 19, “T shall 
have peace, though I walk in the imagination of mine heart.” 

David, indeed, says a little after, that the ungodly abuse 
their prosperity, by flattering themselves; but here, in my 
judgment, he expresses something more weighty, namely, 
that they acquire praise from their presumptuousness, and 
glory in their wickedness ; and this foolish confidence, or bold 
assurance, is the cause of their throwing off all restraint and 
breaking forth into every kind of excess. Accordingly, I 
interpret the words praise and bless as haying the same 
meaning, just as the words, ungodly and violent man, are syno- 
nymous in this place, although they differ from each other 
as genus and species. With these statements agrees what 
is immediately added in the end of the verse, that these 
ungodly persons despise God. To translate the verb, to 
blaspheme, as has been done by some, or to provoke to anger, 
as has been done by others, is too remote from the scope of 
the passage. David rather teaches, that the cause of their 
careless indulgence in the gratification of their lusts, is their 
base contempt of God. He who duly reflects that God will 
be his judge, is so much alarmed by this reflection, that he 
dares not bless his soul while his conscience accuses him of 
guilt and of being given to the practice of sin.? 


4. The ungodly, in the pride of his countenance, §c. Others 
translate the words, The ungodly man, by reason of the violence 
of his anger, or, in the pride which he displays, does not inquire 
after God. But this partly perverts the meaning, and partly 
weakens the force of what David intended to express. In 
the first place, the word inguire, which is here put absolutely, 
that is, without any noun which it governs, is, according to 
this translation, improperly limited to God. Dayid simply 
means, that the ungodly, without examination, permit 
themselves to do any thing, or do not distinguish between 


1 “ Tis s’osent bien absoudre et tenir pour innocens.”—Fr. 
? “ Cependant qu'il se sent coulpable et adonne & mal faire.”—/r. 


a 


ee EE EEE UO ee 





PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 139 


what is lawful and unlawful, because their own lust is 
their law, yea, rather, as if superior to all laws, they fancy 
that it is lawful for them to do whatever they please. The 
beginning of well-doing in a man’s life is inquiry; in other 
words, we can only begin to do well when we keep ourselves 
from following, without choice and discrimination, the dictates 
of our own fancy, and from being carried away by the way- 
ward propensities of our flesh. But the exercise of inquir- 
ing proceeds from humility, when we assign to God, as is 
reasonable, the place of judge and ruler over us. The pro- 
phet, therefore, very properly says, that the reason why the 
ungodly, without any regard or consideration, presume to 
do whatever they desire, is because, being lifted up with 
pride, they leave to God nothing whatever of the prero- 
gative of a judge. The Hebrew word AN; aph, which we 
have translated countenance, I have no doubt is here taken 
in its proper and natural signification, and not metaphori- 
cally for anger ; because haughty persons show their effron- 
tery even by their countenance. 

In the second clause, the prophet more severely, or, at 
least, more openly, accuses them, declaring that all their 
wicked imaginations show that they have no God. Ail his 
devices say, There is no God.' By these words I understand, that 
' through their heaven-daring presumption, they subvert all 
piety and justice, as if there were no God sitting in heaven. 
Did they truly believe that there is a God, the fear of the 
judgment to come would restrain them. Not that they 
plainly and distinctly deny the existence of a God, but then 
they strip him of his power. Now, God would be merely 
like an idol, if, contented with an inactive existence, he 
should divest himself of his office as judge. Whoever, there- 
fore, refuse to admit that the world is subject to the provi- 
dence of God, or do not believe that his hand is stretched 
forth from on high to govern it, do as much as in them lies 


1 The sentence in the Hebrew text is elliptical, and hence it has been 
variously translated. Literally it is, No God all his thoughts. The Syriac 
version uilore it, “ There i is no God in all his thoughts.” The Septuagint 
reads, “‘ Odx foriv 6 Seds évésrsoy adrov,” “* God is not before him.” Mudge 
renders it, ‘ No God is all his wicked politics;” Horsley, “* No God is the 
whole of his philosophy ;” and Fry, ‘**‘Thereisno Elohim’ isall his thought.” 






140 : COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X, | 


to put an end to the existence of God. It is not, however, — 
enough to have some cold and unimpressive knowledge of — 
him in the head; it is only the true and heartfelt conviction 
of his providence which makes.us reverence him, and which 
keeps us in subjection’ to him. The greater part of inter- 
preters understand the last clause as meaning generally, that 
all the thoughts of a wicked man tend to the denial of a 
God. In my opinion, the Hebrew word nya, mezimmoth, is 
here, as in many otherplaces, taken ina bad sense for cunning 
and wicked thoughts,’ so that the meaning, as I have noticed 
already, is this: Since the ungodly have the hardihood to 
devise and perpetrate every kind of wickedness, however 
atrocious, it is from this sufficiently manifest, that they 
have cast off all fear of God from their hearts. 


5. His ways are prosperous at all times ; on high are thy judg- 
ments before him; he puffeth at all his enemies. 

6. He saith in his heart, I shall not be moved from generation 
to generation, because he is not in adversity. 


There is a great diversity of opinion among interpreters 
respecting the first clause of this verse. The translators 
of the Septuagint version, thinking the word bn», yachilu, 
which is in the future tense, derived from the root 95m, cha- 
lal, which it is not, have rendered it, his ways are defiled’ — 
But it is agreed among the Jewish expositors, that it is 
derived from the root Syn, chol. Many among them, how- 
ever, take it actively for to put one in fear, or to put one to 
trouble, as if it had been said, The ways of the ungodly are 
dreadful to the good, and torment them. Some also apply 
the words to God, reading the sentence thus, His ways come, 
that is to say, have their course, or prosper at all times. This, 
however, in my judgment, is too forced. But as this word, 
in other texts of Scripture, means to be prosperous, I am 
surprised that there should be any difference of opinion among 


1“ Qui nous le fait avoir en reverence et nous tient la subjets.”—Fr. 

2‘ Pour meschantes et malicieuses pensees.”—F’r. ‘* Wicked and ma- 
licious thoughts.” 

3 The Greek word which they use is BeSgrovyres. 

4 Aben Ezra’s rendering is, ‘‘ His ways always cause terror.” 


PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 141 


the learned concerning this passage, when immediately, in the 
next clause, the prophet clearly shows that he is speaking of 
the prosperous condition of the ungodly, and the continued 
course of pleasure which intoxicates them. He not only 
complains of this their prosperity, but from it he aggravates 
their guilt, in that they take occasion, from the goodness of 
God, to harden themselves in their wickedness. I would, 
therefore, explain the verse thus: As they enjoy a continued 
course of prosperity, they dream that God is bound or plight- 
ed to them, and hence they put his judgments far from them ; 
and if any man oppose them, they are confident they can 
immediately put him down, or dash him to pieces with 
a puff or breath. Now, we understand the simple meaning 
of the prophet to be, that the ungodly mock God, taking 
encouragement from his forbearance; as that base tyrant, 
Dionysius, because he had a prosperous voyage, after having 
plundered the temple of Proserpine,' boasted that God 
favoured the sacrilegious.? Hence it is, that they put far 
from them the judgments of God. 

In the opinion of some, these words, On high are thy judg- 
ments before him, mean much the same thing as if the prophet 
had said, God treats them with too much clemency, and 
spares them; just as he elsewhere complains of their being 
exempted from the common afflictions of life. But this in- 
terpretation does not so well agree with the words; yea, it 
appears to be unnatural and forced. The judgments of God 
then are said to be on high to the ungodly, because, presuming 
upon the great distance of God from them,* they promise 
themselves not only a truce with death during their whole 
life, but also an everlasting covenant with it. We see how, by 
procrastinating the evil day, they harden themselves, and 
become more and more obstinate in evil;‘ yea, persuading 
themselves that God is shut up in heaven, as if they had 
nothing to do with him, they strengthen themselves in the hope 

1%“ ’ . eit = 

. gas reed ns le temple de Proserpine.”—Fr. 
= aig que se confians de la longue distance qui est entre Dieu et 


4 “Car nous voyons comme delayans le temps, il s’endurcissent et 
obstinent au mal de plus en plus.” —Fr, 


142 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X. 


of escaping unpunished ;! as we see them, in Isaiah, (chap. 


xxii. 13,) jesting at the threatenings of the prophets, saying, 
“ Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we shall die.” When 
the prophets, in order to inspire the people with terror, de- 
nounced the dreadful vengeance of God, which was ready to 
be inflicted upon them, these wicked men cried out that it 
was all whims or idle stories. God therefore bitterly in- 
veighs against them, because, when he called the people to 
mourning, ashes, and sackcloth, these mockers encouraged 
them to minstrelsy and feasting; and at length he swears, 
“ As I live, surely this iniquity shall not be purged from you 
till ye die.” The faithful, indeed, lift up their eyes to heaven 
to behold the judgments of God; and they are not less 
afraid of them than if they were just ready to fall upon their 
heads. The ungodly, on the contrary, despise them, and yet, 
in order not to be disturbed or tormented with the fear or 
apprehension of them, they would banish them into heaven ; 
just as the Epicureans, although they did not presume ayow- 
edly to deny the existence of a God, yet imagined that he is 
confined to heaven, where he indulges himself in idleness, 
without taking any concern about what is done here below.’ 
From this infatuation flows their presumptuous confidence 
of which David speaks, by which they assure themselves of 
being able to destroy, with a puff or blast alone, all who are 
enemies to them. The word M\5, phuach, which sometimes 
signifies to ensnare, is here more properly taken for to puff, or 
to blow out. 

The Psalmist confirms these statements in the next verse, 
where he tells us that the persons of whom he speaks are 
fully persuaded in their hearts that they are beyond all danger 
of change. He saith in his heart, I shall not be moved from 
generation to generation. The ungodly often pour forth proud 
language to this effect. David, however, only touches the 
hidden ulcer of their vile arrogance, which they cherish in 
their own breasts, and therefore he does not say what they 


1 “ En l’esperance de jamais ne venir 4 con r. “In the hope of 
never being called to account.” 

2 “ Font a croire qu'il est au here. cg il se donne du bon temps sans se 
soucier de ce qu’il se fait yci bas.” 


r 
a 





PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 143 


speak with their mouth, but what they persuade themselves of 
in their hearts. It may here be asked, Why does David blame 
in others what he professes concerning himself in so many 
places?! for trusting to the protection of God, he coura- 
geously triumphs over all dangers.? And surely it becomes 
the children of God effectually to provide for their safety, so 
that, although the world should a hundred times fall into 
ruins, they may have the comfortable assurance that they 
will remain unmoved. The answer to this question is easy, 
and it is this, The faithful promise themselves security in 
God, and no where else; and yet while they do this, they 
know themselves to be exposed to all the storms of affliction, 
and patiently submit to them. There is a very great differ- 
ence between a despiser of God who, enjoying prosperity to- 
day, is so forgetful of the condition of man in this world, as 
through a distempered imagination to build his nest above 
the clouds, and who persuades himself that he shall always 
enjoy comfort and repose,*—there is a very great difference 
between him and the godly man, who, knowing that his life 
hangs only by a thread, and is encompassed by a thousand 
deaths, and who, ready to endure any kind of afflictions which 
shall be sent upon him, and living in the world as if he were 
. sailing upon a tempestuous and dangerous sea, nevertheless, 
bears patiently all his troubles and sorrows, and comforts him- 
self in his afflictions, because he leans wholly upon the grace 
of God, and entirely confides init. The ungodly man says, I 
shall not be moved, or I shall not shake for ever; because he 
thinks himself sufficiently strong and powerful to bear up 
against all the assaults which shall be made upon him. The 
faithful man says, What although I may happen to be moved, 
yea, even fall and sink into the lowest depths ? my fall will not 
be fatal, for God will put his hand under me to sustain me. By 


1 Ps. iii. 7; xxiti. 4; xxvii. 8, &c.—Fr. 

2 “Tl ose dire hardiment qu'il ne redoute nuls dangers et les desfie 
tous."—Fr. “He courageously declares that he is not afraid of any 

and defies them all.” 

3 “ Et se fait & croire qu’il sera tousjours A son aise et a repos.”—Fr. 

* “Toutesfois pource qu'il seas du tout sur la grace de iy et 
s’y confie, iemment toutes molestes et ennuis et se console en ses 
oss 


144 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X, 


this, in like manner, we are furnished with an explanation of 
the different effects which an apprehension of danger has upon 
the good and the bad. Good men may tremble and sink into 
despondency, but this leads them to flee with all haste to the 
sanctuary of God’s grace ;! whereas the ungodly, while they 
are affrighted even at the noise of a falling leaf,? and live in 
constant uneasiness, endeavour to harden themselves in their 
stupidity, and to bring themselves into such a state of giddy 
frenzy, that being, as it were, carried out of themselves, they 
may not feel their calamities. The cause assigned for the 
confidence with which the prosperous ungodly man persuades 
himself that no change shall come upon him is, because he is not 
in adversity. This admits of two senses. It either means, that 
the ungodly, because they have been exempted from all cala- 
mity and misery during the past part of their life, entertain 
the hope of a peaceful and joyful state in the time to come ; 
or it means, that through a deceitful imagination they exempt 
themselves from the common condition of men; just as in 
Isaiah, (chap. xxviii. 15,) they say, “ When the overflowing 
scourge shall pass through, it shall not come upon us.” 


7. His mouth is full of cursing, and deceit, and malice : under 
his tongue are mischief and iniquity. 

8. He will sit in the ensnaring places of the villages ; in his 
lurking places will he murder the innocent : his eyes will 
take their aim against the poor. 

9. He will lie in wait secretly, as a lion in his den; he will lie 


in wait to catch the poor ; he will catch the poor by draw- 


ing him into his net. 
10. He will crouch low, and:cast himself down, and then shall an 
army of the afflicted fall by his strengths. 


7. His mouth is full of cursing. The scope of these four 
verses is this: If God intends to succour his servants, it is 


1 “* Se ‘retirent de bonne heure vers la grace de Dieu pour se mettre a 
suuvete comme en un lien de refuge et asseurance.”—Fr. ‘* Betake them- 
selves with all haste to the grace of God, to put themselves in safety as 
in a place of refuge and security.” 

2 “ Au bruit des fueilles qui tombent des arbres.”—Fr. “ At the noise 
of leaves falling from the trees.” 

5 “Qu, par ses forts, asgavoir membres.”—Fr. ‘ Or, by his strong mem- 
bers.” That is, his teeth, or claws. ‘The adjective for strong, in the ori- 





} 


PSALM X. TITE BOOK OF PSALMS. 145 


now a proper time for doing so, inasmuch as the lawlessness 
of the ungodly has burst forth to the utmost possible excess. 
In the first place, he complains that their tongues are full of 
perjuries and deceits, and that they carry or hide mischief 
and wrongs, it being impossible to have any dealings with 

in any matter without loss and damage. The word 
i alah, which some render cursing, does not signify the 
execrations which they throw out against others, but rather 
those which they call down upon their own heads: for they 
do not scruple to utter the most awful imprecations against 
themselves, that thereby they may the better succeed in 
deceiving others. It is, therefore, not improperly rendered 
by some, perjury, for this word ought to be joined to the 
other two, deceit and malice. ‘Thus the wicked are described 
as cursing or swearing falsely, so far as it contributes to for- 
ward their purposes of deceiving and doing injury. Hence 
follow mischief and injustice, because it is impossible for the 
simple, without suffering detriment, to escape their snares, 
which are woven of deceits, perjuries, and malice. 


8. He will sit in the ensnaring places of the villages Ihave 
purposely avoided changing the verbs of the future tense 
into another tense, because they imply a continued act, and 
also because this Hebrew idiom has extended even to other 
languages. David, therefore, describes what ungodly men 
are accustomed to do. And, in the first place, he compares 
them to highwaymen, who lie in wait at the narrow parts of 


ginal, is in the plural, and there is no substantive with which it ’ 
e have examples of a similar ellipsis in other parts of Scripture. us 
in 2 Sam. xxi. 16, we have new, for a new sword; and in Psalm lxxiii. 
10, full, for a full cup ; and in Matth. x. 42, cold, for cold water.—Poole’s 
Annotations. 

1 Horsley renders the eighth verse thus : 
“ He sitteth in ambush* in the villages in secret places ; 

He murdereth the innocent ; his eyes are ever watching for the helpless.” 

And he has the following note: ‘ Symmachus and St Jerome certainly 
read thus, my 3M sw 3e, and they both render 3x2, as a participle. ‘ He 
sitteth prowling about the farm-houses.’ This I take to be the true read- 
ing a the true rendering. The image is that of a beast of prey of the 
lesser order, a fox or a wolf, lying upon the watch about the farm-yard in 


the evening.” 
* Or, “he sitteth prowling about the farm~yard.” 
VOL. I, K 


146 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X. 


roads, and choose for themselves hiding-places from which 
they may fall upon travellers when off their guard. He 
says also, that their eyes are bent or leering,‘ by a similitude 
borrowed from the practice of dart-shooters, who take their 
aim with leering, or half shut eyes, in order to hit the 
mark the surer. Nor does he here speak of the common 
sort of highwaymen who are in the woods ;? but he directs 
his language against those great robbers who hide their 
wickedness under titles of honour, and pomp, and splendour. 
The word D¥N, chatserim, therefore, which we have render- 
ed villages, is by some translated palaces ; as if David had said, 
they have converted their royal mansions into places of 
robbery, where they may cut the throats of their unhappy 
victims. But granting the word to have this allusion, I 
consider that it refers principally to the practice of robbers, 
to which there is a reference in the whole verse, and I explain 
it thus: Like as robbers lie in wait at the egresses of 
villages, so these persons lay their snares wherever they are. 

In the next verse, he sets forth their cruelty in a light still 
more aggravated, by another comparison, saying, that they 
thirst for their prey like lions in their dens. Now, it is a step 
higher in wickedness to equal in cruelty wild beasts than to 
make havoc after the manner of robbers. It is worthy of 
remark, that he always joins deceits and snares with violence, 
in order the better to show how miserable the children of God 
would be, unless they were succoured by help from heaven. 
There is also added another similitude, which expresses more 
clearly how craft in catching victims is mingled with cruelty. 
They catch them, says he, but it is by drawing them into their 
net. By these words he means, that they not only rush upon 
them with open force and violence, but that, at the same 
time also, they spread their nets in order to deceive. 

He again repeats all this in the tenth verse, giving a beau- 
tiful and graphic description of the very mien or gesture of 


1 Bishop Mant reads ‘* peering eyes.” ‘ Concerning the word,” says 
he, ‘‘ which I have rendered peering, Parkhurst says it is applied 
to winking or half closing the eyes in order to see more distinctly. The 
Septuagint and Vulgate translations, which mean look at, behold, give the 
sae gem but not the beautiful image expressed in the Hebrew.” 


2 “ Qui sont parmi les bois.” —Fr, 


~— S35 a) oe 


ee ee ee a a ee 


ee ee 


PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. © 147 


such wicked men, just as if he set before our eyes a picture 
of them. They crouch low, says he, and cast themselves down,} 
that they may not, by their cruelty, frighten away their 
victims to a distance; for they would fain catch in their 
entanglements those whom they cannot hurt without coming 
close tothem. We see how he joins these two things together, 
first snares or gins, and then sudden violence, as soon as the 
prey has fallen into their hands. For, by the second clause, 
he means, that whenever they see the simple to be fully in 
their power, they rush upon them by surprise with a savage 
violence, just as if a lion should furiously rise from his couch 
to tear in pieces his prey.? The obvious meaning of the 
Psalmist is, that the ungodly are to be dreaded on all sides, 
because they dissemble their cruelty, till they find those 
caught in their toils whom they wish to devour. There is 
some obscurity in the words, to which we shall briefly 
advert. In the clause which we have rendered an army of 
the afflicted, the Hebrew word 'N59M, chelcaim, an army, 
in the opinion of some, is a word of four letters.? Those, 
however, think more accurately who hold it to be compound, 
and equivalent to two words.‘ Although, therefore, the 
verb bps, naphal, is in the singular number, yet the prophet, 
doubtless, uses D'ND bn, chel caim, collectively, to denote a 


' The allusion is to the practice of the lion, who, when he intends to 
seize upon his prey, crouches, or lies down, and gathers himself together, 
both to conceal himself, and that he may make the greater spring upon 
his prey when it comes within his reach, (Job xxxviii. 39, 40.) 

2 “Comme si un lion sortant de son giste se levoit furieusement pour 
mettre sa proye par pieces.”—Fr. ‘As if a lion, issuing from his den, 
furiously raised hnself to spring upon his prey, and to tear it in pieces.” 
** When the lion,” says Buffon, ‘*‘ leaps upon his prey, he gives a spring of 
ten or fifteen feet, on, seizes it with his fore-paws, tears it with his 
claws, and afterwards devours it with his teeth.” 

§ Being the plural of nsbn, chelcah, which occurs three times in this 
psalm, namely, here and in the eighth and fourteenth verses, where it is 
rendered poor. 

‘ aety. tarx> 5m, chel caim. Those who adopt this reading observe, 
that according to the other view, the verb $x, naphal, translated may fall, 
which is cleagdlar, is joined with a plural noun, m»xsbn, chelcaim, but that, 
by dividing this last word into two, we get a singular nominative to the 
verb. Hammond, however, who adopts the first opinion, observes, “That 
it is an elegance, both in the Hebrew and Arabic, to use the verb sin- 
gular with the nominative plural, especially when the verb is placed first, 
as here it is;” and, therefore, he denies the validity of that objection 
against the ordinary rendering. 


148 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X. 


great company of people who are afflicted by every one of 
these lions. I have rendered D'D\¥Y, atsumim, his strengths, 
as if it were a substantive ; because the prophet, doubtless, by 
this term, intends the talons and teeth of the lion, in which 
the strength of that beast chiefly consists. As, however, the 
word is properly an adjective in the plural number, signify- 
ing strong, without having any substantive with which it 
agrees, we may reasonably suppose that, by the talons and 
teeth of the lion, he means to express metaphorically a 
powerful body of soldiers. In short, the meaning is this: 
These wicked men hide their strength, by feigned humility 
and crafty courteous demeanour, and yet they will always 
have in readiness an armed band of satellites, or claws and 
teeth, as soon as an opportunity of doing mischief is presented 
to them. ‘. 


11. He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten it: he hideth 
his face that he may never see it. 


12. Arise, O Jehovah God, lift up thine hand: forget not the 


poor. 
13. Why do the wicked despise God? He saith in his heart, 
Thou wilt not require it. 


11. He hath said in his heart. The Psalmist again points 


out the source from which the presumption of the ungod- 
ly proceeds. Because God seems to take no notice of 
their wicked practices, they flatter themselves with the 
hope of escaping unpunished. As, however, they do not 
openly utter with their mouth the detestable blasphemy, 
that God hath forgotten their conduct, and hath shut his 
eyes that he may never see it, but hide their thoughts in 
the deep recesses of their own hearts, as Isaiah declares, 
(chap. xxix. 15 ;) the Psalmist uses the same form of expres- 
sion which he used before, and which he repeats a little 
after the third time, namely, that the ungodly say to 
themselves, in their hearts, that God takes no concern what- 
ever in the affairs of men. And it is to be observed, that the 
ungodly, when all things happen to them according to their 
wishes, form such a judgment of their prosperity as to per- 
suade themselves that God is in a manner bound or obliged 


ere en eee 


PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 149 


to them.'. Whence it comes to pass, that they live in a state 
of constant security,” because they do not reflect, that after 
God has long exercised patience towards them, they will 
undergo a solemn reckoning, and that their condemnation will 
be the more terrible, the greater the long-suffering of God. 


12. Arise, O Jehovah. It is a disease under which men in 
general labour, to imagine, according to the judgment of the 
flesh, that when God does not execute his judgments, he is 
sitting idle, or lying at ease. There is, however, a great 
difference with respect to this between the faithful and the 
wicked. The latter cherish the false opinion which is dictated 
by the weakness of the flesh, and in order to soothe and 
flatter themselves in their vices, they indulge in slumbering, 
and render their conscience stupid,’ until at length, through 
their wicked obstinacy, they harden themselves into a gross 
contempt of God. But the former soon shake from their 
minds that false imagination, and chastise themselves, re- 
turning of their own accord to a due consideration of what 
is the truth on this subject.‘ Of this we have here set 
before us a striking example. By speaking of God after the 
manner of men, the prophet declares that the same error 
which he has just now condemned in the despisers of God 
had gradually stolen in upon his own mind. But he proceeds 
at once to correct it, and resolutely struggles with himself, 
and restrains his mind from forming such conceptions of 
God, as would reflect dishonour upon his righteousness and 
glory. It is therefore a temptation to which all men are 
naturally prone, to begin to doubt of the providence of God, 
when his hand and judgment are not seen. The godly, how- 
ever, differ widely from the wicked. The former, by means 
of faith, check this apprehension of the flesh ; while the latter 


'“ Or il faut noter que les meschans voyans que tout leur vient & 
souchait font tellement estat de leur prosperite, qu'ils se font & croire 
ue Dieu est aucunement obligé a eux.” —/r. 
2 * Qu'ils vivent sans crainte ne souci de l’advenir.,.—Fr. ‘“ That 
they live without any fear or concern about the future.” 
3“ Et prenent plaisir & s’assopir et rendre leur conscience stupide, 
afin de se flatter en leurs vices.” — 
4 * Retournans d’eux mesmes & bien considerer ce qui en est a la 
verite.”—Fr. 


150 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X. 


indulge themselves in their froward imagination. Thus — 


David, by the word Arise, does not so much stir up God, as 
he awakens himself, or endeavours to awaken himself, to hope 
for more of the assistance of God than he presently experi- 
enced. Accordingly, this verse contains the useful doctrine, 
that the more the ungodly harden themselves, through their 
slothful ignorance, and endeavour to persuade themselves 
that God takes no concern about men and their affairs, and 
will not punish the wickedness which they commit, the more 
should we endeavour to be persuaded of the contrary; yea, 
rather their ungodliness ought to incite us vigorously to repel 
the doubts which they not only admit, but studiously frame 
for themselves. 


13. Why doth the wicked despise God? It is, indeed, super- 
fluous to bring arguments before God, for the purpose of 
persuading him to grant us what we ask; but still he per- 
mits us to make use of them, and to speak to him in prayer, 
as familiarly as a son speaks to an earthly father. It 
should always be observed, that the use of praying is, that 
God may be the witness of all our affections; not that they 
would otherwise be hidden from him, but when we pour out 
our hearts before him, our cares are hereby greatly lightened, 
and our confidence of obtaining our requests increases. Thus 
David, in the present passage, by setting before himself how 
unreasonable and intolerable it would be for the wicked to be 
allowed to despise God according to their pleasure, thinking 
he will never bring them to an account,' was led to cher- 
ish the hope of deliverance from his calamities. The 
word which is here rendered despise, is the same as that 
which he had used before. Some translate it to provoke, and 
others to blaspheme. But the signification which I have pre- 
ferred certainly agrees much better with the context; for 
when persons take from God the power and office of judging, 
this is ignominiously to drag him from his throne, and to 
degrade him, as it were, to the station of a private individual.” 


1 “ A leur plaisir n’estimans pas que jamais il les amenast & conte.”— 
Fr. 
2 “ Au rang des hommes.”"——Fr. “ To the rank of men.” 











PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 151 


Moreover, as David had a little before complained that the 
ungodly deny the existence of a God, or else imagine him to 
be constantly asleep, having no care about mankind, so now 
he complains to the same purpose that they say, God will 
not require it. 

14. Thou hast seen it ; for thou considerest mischief and vexa- 
tion,’ that thou mayest take the matter into thine own 
hand : upon thee shall the poor leave, for thou wilt be the 
helper of the fatherless. 


15. Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man ; thou 
shalt seek his wickedness, and shalt not find it. 


14. Thou hast seen it ; for thou, §c. Here David, suddenly 
kindled with a holy zeal, enters into conflict, and, armed 
with the shield of faith, courageously repels these execrable 
opinions ; but as he could derive no advantage by making his 
appeal to men, he has recourse to God, and addresses him. As 
the ungodly, in the hope of enjoying unrestrained license in 
the commission of all kinds of wickedness, withdraw to the 
greatest possible distance from God,’ and through the dictates 
of a perverse mind, imagine themselves to be far beyond his 
reach ; so, on the contrary, the faithful ought carefully to 
keep themselves aloof from those wild opinions, which are 
afloat in the world, and with minds lifted upward, to speak 
to God as if present with them. Accordingly, David, in 
order to prevent himself from being overcome by the blas- 
phemies of men, very properly turns away his attention from 
them. There is added a reason in confirmation of the first 
sentence of the verse, namely, because God considers mischief 
and vexation. Since it is the peculiar province of God to 
take cognisance of all wrongs, David concludes that it is 
impossible for God to shut his eyes when the ungodly are 
wrecklessly and without restraint committing their outrages. 
Moreover, he descends: from the general to the particular, 
which ought to be attentively marked : for nothing is easier 
than to acknowledge in general terms that God exercises a 
care about the world, and the affairs of men; but it is very 


1 “ Oppression.” —Fr. 
2 « Se reculent le plus loin de Dieu qu’ils peuvent.”—Fr, 


152 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X. 


difficult to apply this doctrine to its various uses in every-day 
life. And yet, all that the Scripture says concerning the power 
and righteousness of God will be of no advantage to us, and, 
as it were, only matter of meagre speculation,’ unless every 
one apply these statements to himself, as his necessity may 
require. Let us therefore learn, from the example of Dayid, 
to reason thus: that, since it belongs to God to take notice 
ofall the mischief and injuries which are inflicted on the good 
and simple, He considers our trouble and sorrows even when 
he seems for a time to take no notice of them. The Psalmist 
also adds, that God does not look down from heaven upon 
the conduct of men here below as an idle and unconcerned 
spectator, but that it is his work to pass judgment upon it; 
for to take the matter into his own hand, is nothing else than 
duly and effectually to examine and determine it as a judge. 

It is, however, our duty to wait patiently so long as yen- 
geance is reserved in the hand of God, until he stretch forth 
his arm to help us. We see, therefore, the reason why 
it is immediately added, Upon thee shall the poor leave. By 
these words David means, that we ought to give the pro- 
vidence of God time to manifest itself. The godly, when 
they are afflicted, may with confidence cast their cares 
into his bosom, and commit themselves to his protection. 
They ought not, however, to be in haste for the accomplish- 
ment of their wishes; but, being now disburdened, they 
should take their breath till God manifestly declare that 
the fit time of interfering in their behalf is come. The 
man, therefore, leaves upon God who betakes himself to his 
protection, and who, fully persuaded of his faithfulness in 
keeping what is entrusted to him, quietly waits till the fit time 
of his deliverance come. Some read the verb passively, 
The poor shall be left upon thee. The first reading, however, 
is more correct, and it agrees with the rules of grammar ; 
only it is a defective form of expression, inasmuch as the 
thing which the poor leaves is not expressed. But this 
defect is common in Hebrew; and there is no obscurity in 
the thing itself, namely, that, when the godly commit them- 


1 “ Sera de nulle utilite et comme un speculation maigre.”—Fr. 





4 


_ ~*~ 


\. 


\ 
- 
\ 


\ 
PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 153 


selves and their concerns to God by prayer, their prayers will 
not be in vain; for these two clauses are closely connected, 
Upon thee shall the poor leave, and, Thou shalt be a helper to 
the fatherless. By a metaphor he terms the person father- 
less whom he had in the preceding clause called poor. 
And the verb being in the future tense denotes a continued act. 


15. Break thou thearm. This form of expression just means 
breaking the power of the wicked. And it is not simply a 
prayer; it may also be regarded as a prophecy. As the 
ungovernable fury of our enemies very often makes us 
lose courage, as if there were no means by which it could 
be restrained, Dayid, in order to support his faith, and 
preserve it from failing through the fears which presented 
themselves, sets before himself the consideration, that when- 
ever it shall please God to break the power of the ungodly, 
he will bring to nothing both themselves and all their schemes. 
To make the meaning the more evident, the sentence may 
be explained in this way,—Lord, as soon as it shall seem 
good to thee to break the arm of the wicked, thou wilt 
destroy him in a moment, and bring to nought his powerful 
and violent efforts in the work of doing mischief. David, 
indeed, beseeches God to hasten his assistance and his 
vengeance ; but, in the meantime, while these are withheld, 
he sustains himself by the consolatory reflection, that the 
ungodly cannot break forth into violence and mischief except 
in so far as God permits them; since it is in his power, 
whenever he ascends into the judgment-seat, to destroy 
them eyen with his look alone. And certainly, as the rising 
sun dissipates the clouds and vapours by his heat, and 
clears up the dark air, so God, when he stretches forth his 
hand to execute the office of a Judge, restores to tranquillity 
and order all the troubles and confusions of the world. 
The Psalmist calls the person of whom he speaks not only 
wiched, but the wicked and the evil man, and he does so, in my 
judgment, for the purpose of setting forth in a stronger 
light the greatness of the wickedness of the character 
which he describes. His words are as if he had said, 
Wicked men may even be frantic in their malice and im- 


154 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X. 


piety ; but God can promptly and effectually remedy this’ q 
evil whenever he pleases. ; 


16. Jehovah is King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished 
out of his land. ir 

17. Thou hast heard the desire of the needy, O Jehovah : thou wilt 
direct | their hearts, and thine ear shall hear them. 

18. To judge the fatherless and the poor, that the man who is 
of earth may no more terrify them, 


16. Jehovah is King for ever and ever. David now, as if he 
had obtained the desires of his heart, rises up to holy rejoicing 
and thanksgiving. When he calls God King for ever and ever, 
it is a token of his confidence and joy. By the title of King, he 
vindicates God’s claim to the government of the world, and 
when he describes him as King for ever and ever, this shows 
how absurd it is to think to shut him up within the narrow 
limits of time. As the course of human life is short, even those 
who sway the sceptre over the greatest empires, being but 
mortal men, very often disappoint the expectations of their 
servants,’ as we are taught in Psalm cxlvi. 3, 4, “ Put not 
your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is 
no help. His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; _ 
in that very day his thoughts perish.” Often the power of 
giving assistance to others fails them, and while they are | 
delaying to give it, the opportunity slips away from them. 


But we ought to entertain more exalted and honourable — 


conceptions of our heavenly King; for although he does not 
immediately execute his judgments, yet he has always the full 
and the perfect power of doing so. In short, he reigns, not 
for himself in particular ; it is for us that he reigns for ever 
and ever. As this, then, is the duration of his reign, it fol- 
lows that a long delay cannot hinder him from stretching 
forth his hand in due season to succour his people, even when — 
they are, as it were, dead, or in a condition which, to the eye 
of sense and reason, is hopeless.—The heathen are perished 
out of the land. The meaning is, that the holy land was at 
length purged from the abominations and impurities with 


1“ Ou, fortifieras.”—Fr. marg. ‘* Or, thou wilt strengthen or establish.” 
2“ Bien souvent frustrent leurs serviteurs de leur attente.”——Fr. 





‘PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 155 


which it had been polluted. It was a dreadful profanation, 
when the land which had been given for an inheritance to the 
people of God, and allotted to those who purely worshipped 
him, nourished ungodly and wicked inhabitants. By the 
heathen he does not mean foreigners, and such as did not 
belong to the race of Abraham according to the flesh,’ but 
hypocrites, who falsely boasted that they belonged to the 
people of God, just as at this day many, who are Christians 
only in name, occupy a place in the bosom of the Church. 
It is no new thing for the prophets to call apostates, who 
have degenerated from the virtues and holy lives of their 
fathers, by the reproachful name of heathen, and to compare 
them not only to the uncircumcised, but also to the Canaan- 
ites, who were the most detestable among all the heathen. 
“ Thy father was an Amorite, and thy mother an Hittite,” 
(Ezek. xvi. 3.) Many other similar passages are to be 
met with in Scripture. David, therefore, in applying the 
dishonourable name of heathen to the false and bastard 
children of Abraham, gives God thanks for having expelled 
such a corrupt class out of his Church. By this example we 
are taught, that it is no new thing if we see in our own day 
the Church of God polluted by profane and irreligious men. 
We ought, however, to beseech God quickly to purge his 
house, and not leave his holy temple exposed to the dese- 
cration of swine and dogs, as if it were a dunghill. 


17. O Jehovah, thou hast heard the desire of the needy. In 
these words the prophet confirms what I have just now said, 
that when hypocrites prevail in the Church, or exceed the 
faithful in number, we ought, unceasingly, to beseech God to 
root them out; for such a confused and shameful state of 
things ought surely to be matter of deep grief to all the true 
servants of God. By these words, also, the Holy Spirit assures 
us, that what of old God granted to the fathers in answer to 
their prayers, we at the present day will obtain, provided 
we have that anxious solicitude about the deliverance of the 
Church which we ought to entertain. ‘The clause which 


1“ Et des personnes qui ne fussent de larace d’Abraham selon la 
chair.”—Fr. 


156 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM X. 


follows, Thou wilt direct their hearts, is variously interpreted 
by expositors. Some think it signifies the same thing as if 
it had been said, Thou wilt give success to their desires. 
According to others, the meaning is, Thou wilt frame and 
sanctify their hearts by thy grace, that they may ask nothing 
in prayer but what is right and according to the divine will, 
as Paul teaches us that the Holy Spirit “ stirs up within 
us groanings which cannot be uttered,” (Rom. viii. 26.) 
Both these expositions are perhaps too forced. Dayid, in 
this clause, magnifies the grace of God in sustaining and 
comforting his servants in the midst of their troubles and 
distresses, that they may not sink into despondency,—in 
furnishing them with fortitude and patience,—in inspiring 
them with good hope,—and in stirring them up also to prayer. 
This is the import of the verb }*3, Kim, which signifies not 
only to direct, but also to establish. It is a singular bless- 
ing which God confers upon us, when, in the midst of temp- 
tation, he upholds our hearts, and does not suffer them to 
recede from him, or to turn aside to any other quarter for 
support and deliverance. The meaning of the clause which 
immediately follows, Thou wilt cause thine ear to hear, is, that 
it is not in vain that God directs the hearts of his people, 
and leads them, in obedience to his command, to look to 
Himself, and to call upon him in hope and patience,—it is 
not in vain, because his ears are never shut against their 
groanings. Thus the mutual harmony between two religious 
exercises is here commended. God does not suffer the faith 
of his servants to faint or fail, nor does he suffer them to 
desist from praying; but he keeps them near him by faith 
and prayer, until it actually appear that their hope has been 
neither vain nor ineffectual. The sentence might, not im- 
properly, be rendered thus: Thou shalt establish their heart, 
until thine ear hear them. 


18. That thou mayest judge. Here the Psalmist applies the 
last sentence of the preceding verse to a special purpose, 
namely, to prevent the faithful, when they are unjustly 
oppressed, from doubting that God will at length take ven- 
geance on their enemies, and grant them deliverance. By: 


nal 


ad 


baler 


se i i i i ee i 


ie i ei ee 


> 


PSALM X. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 157 


these words he teaches us, that we ought to bear with patience 
and fortitude the crosses and afflictions which are laid upon 
us, since God often withholds assistance from his servants 
until they are reduced to extremity. This is, indeed, a duty 
of difficult performance, for we would all desire to be entire- 
ly exempted from trouble; and, therefore, if God does not 
quickly come to our relief, we think him remiss and inactive. 
But if we are anxiously desirous of obtaining his assistance, 
we must subdue our passion, restrain our impatience, and 
keep our sorrows within due bounds, waiting until our afilic- 
tions call forth the exercise of his compassion, and excite him 
to manifest his grace in succouring us. 

That the man who is of earth may no more terrify them. 
Dayid again commends the power of God in destroying the 
ungodly ; and he does it for this purpose,—that in the midst 
of their tumultuous assaults we may have this principle 
deeply fixed in our minds, that God, whenever he pleases, 
can bring all their attempts to nothing. Some understand 
the verb PW, aots, which we have translated ¢o terrify, as 
neuter, and read the words thus,—that mortal man may 
be no more afraid. But it agrees better with the scope 
of the passage to render it transitively, as we have done. 
And although the wicked prosper in their wicked course, and 
lift up their heads above the clouds, there is much truth in 
describing them as mortal, or men liable to many calamities. 
The design of the Psalmist is indirectly to condemn their 
infatuated presumption, in that, forgetful of their condition, 
they breathe out cruel and terrible threatenings, as if it were 
beyond the power of even God himself to repress the violence 
of their rage. The phrase, of earth, contains a tacit contrast 
between the low abode of this world and the height of 
heaven. For whence do they go forth to assault the child- 
ren of God? Doubtless, from the earth, just as if so many 
worms should creep out of the crevices of the ground; but 
in so doing, they attack God himself, who promises help 
to his servants from heaven. 


158 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XI. 


PSALM XI. 


This psalm consists of two parts. In the first part, David recounts the 
severe assaults of temptation which he had encountered, and the state of 
distressing anxiety to which he had been reduced during the time of his 
persecution by Saul. In the second, he congratulates himself on the 
deliverance which God had granted him, and magnifies the righteous- 
ness of God in the government of the world. 


q To the chief musician. A Psalm of David. 


1. In Jehovah do I put my trust : how then say ye to my soul, 
Flee ye into your mountain as a bird ? 

2. Surely, behold! the ungodly shall bend! their bow, they have 
jixed their arrows upon the string, to shoot secretly at the 
upright in heart. 

3. Truly, the foundations are destroyed : what? hath the right- 
eous One done ? 


1. In Jehovah do I put my trust. Almost all interpreters 
think that this is a complaint which David brings against his 
countrymen, that while seeking in every quarter for hiding- 
places, he could find nowhere even common humanity. And 
it is indeed true, that in the whole course of his wanderings, 
after betaking himself to flight to escape the cruelty of Saul, 
he could find no secure place of retreat, at least, none where 
he might continue for any length of time undisturbed. He 
might, therefore, justly complain of his own countrymen, in 
that none of them deigned to shelter him when he was a 
fugitive. But I think he has a respect to something higher. 
When all men were striving, as it were, with each other, 
to drive him to despair, he must, according to the weakness 


of the flesh, have been afflicted with great and almost 


overwhelming distress of mind; but fortified by faith, he 
confidently and stedfastly leaned on the promises of God, 


1“ Ont tendu l’are.”—Fr. ‘‘ Have bent their bow.” 
2“ Mais que?”—Fr, ‘* But what?” 





OT ee 





PSALM XI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 159 


and was thus preserved from yielding to the temptations 
to which he was exposed. These spiritual conflicts, with 
which God exercised him in the midst of his extreme perils, he 
here recounts. Accordingly, as I have just now observed, the 
psalm should be divided into two parts. Before celebrating 
the righteousness of God, which he displays in the preserva- 
tion of the godly, the Psalmist shows how he had encoun- 
tered even death itself, and yet, through faith and an upright 
conscience, had obtained the victory. As all men advised 
him to leave his country, and retire into some place of exile, 
where he might be concealed, inasmuch as there remained for 
him no hope of life, unless he should relinquish the kingdom, 
which had been promised to him; in the beginning of the 
psalm, he opposes to this perverse advice the shield of his 
trust in God. 

But before entering farther upon the subject, let us 
interpret the words. The word ‘\3, nud, which we have 
rendered to flee, is written in the plural number, and yet 
it is read in the singular;! but, in my opinion, this is a 
corrupt reading. As David tells us that this was said to 
himself only, the Jewish doctors, thinking the plural number 
unsuitable, have taken it upon them to read the word in the 
- singular. Some of them, wishing to retain the literal sense 
as it is called, perplex themselves with the question, why 
it is said, Flee ye, rather than Flee thou; and, at length, 
they have recourse to a very meagre subtilty, as if those 
who counselled him to betake himself to flight addressed 
both his soul and his body. But it was unnecessary labour 
to put themselves to so much trouble in a matter where there 
is no difficulty ; for it is certain that those who counselled 
David did not say that he alone should flee, but that he 


1 Calvin’s meaning is, that main ae the Hebrew letters, the verb 
is in the plural number ; but, accordi g to the Hebrew punctuation, 
which ore the reading, it is in the sin . Piscator, in his com- 
mentary on this passage, observes, “rn, nudi, according to the points, is 
come and feminine, and refers to the soul of David; asbattionl to the 
letters it is plural, rm, nudu, and refers to David and his associates. This 
last ing appears to me the most appropriate, both because it is fol- 
lowed by the relative in the plural number, and because it does not seem 
to be a proper or natural mode of expression, to speak of persons address- 
ing the soul of another.” The phrase, to my soul, however, may simply 
mean to me, a sense in which it is frequently used in Scripture, 


160 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XI. _ 


should flee, together with all his attendants, who were in the 
same danger with himself. Although, therefore, they ad- 
dressed themselves especially to David, yet they included 
his companions, who had a common cause with him, and _ 
were exposed to the like danger. Expositors, also, differ in — 
their interpretation of what follows. Many render it from 
your mountain, as if it were LQ]5°97D, meharkem ; and, accord- 
ing to them, there is a change of person, because those who 
spoke to him must have said, flee thou from OUR mountain. 
But this is harsh and strained. Nor does it appear to 
me that they have any more reason on their side, when they 
say that Judea is here called mountain. Others think 
we should read 9\5¥ 95 NM, har hemo tsippor,' that is, into 
the mountain as a bird, without a pronoun.? But if we fol- 
low what I have said, it will agree very well with the scope — 
of the passage to read thus, Flee ye into your mountain, for 
you are not permitted to dwell in your own country. I do 
not, however, think that any particular mountain is pointed 
out, but that David was sent away to the desert rocks 
wherever chance might lead him. Condemning those who 
gave him this advice, he declares that he depends upon the 
promise of God, and is not at all disposed thus to go away 
into exile. Such, then, was the condition of Dayid, that, in 
his extreme necessity, all men repelled and chased him far — 
away into desert places. 

But as he seems to intimate that it would be a sign of 
distrust were he to place his safety in flight, it may be asked, 
whether or not it would have been lawful for him to flee; 
yea, we know that he was often forced to retire into exile, and 


1 This is the reading adopted by the Chaldee, Septuagint, and Vulgate 
versions. phi wen Ps wisn that ‘ where the Hebrew now reads, 
sex on, harkem tsippor, To your mountain a sparrow, all the ancient 
interpreters uniformly read, Zo the mountain as a sparrow.” Horsley — 
translates the words, “ Flee, sparrows, to your hill,” and views the 
sion “as proverbial, denoting a situation of helplessness and danger, in 
which there was no hope of safety but in flight.” The noun ex, tsippor, 
which he renders sparrows, is singular, and it is here construed with a 
plural verb and a plural pronoun. But he remarks, that as this word, like 
most names of animals in the Hebrew signifies either the indi- 
vidual or the species, it may here be used in the singular number for many 
individuals, and construed with plural verbs, adjectives, and pronouns. 

* “Sans specifier & qui est ceste montagne.”—J’r. ‘* Without specify- 
ing whose mountain it is.” 





PSALM XI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 161 


driven about from place to place, and that he even sometimes 
hid himself in caves. I answer, it is true he was unsettled like 
a poor fearful bird, which leaps from branch to branch,! and 
was compelled to seek for different bypaths, and to wander 
from place to place to avoid the snares of his enemies ; yet still 
his faith continued so stedfast that he never alienated him- 
self from the people of God. Others accounted him a lost 
man, and one whose affairs were in a hopeless condition, 
setting no more value upon him than if he had been a 
rotten limb,? yet he never separated himself from the body 
of the Church. And certainly these words, Flee ye, tended 
only to make him yield to utter despair. But it would 
have been wrong for him to have yielded to these fears, 
and to have betaken himself to flight, as if uncertain of 
what would be the issue. He therefore says expressly, 
that this was spoken to his soul, meaning that his heart was 
deeply pierced by such an ignominious rejection, since he 
saw (as I have said) that it tended only to shake and to 
weaken his faith. In short, although he had always lived 
innocently, as it became a true servant of God, yet these 
malignant men would have doomed him to remain for ever 
in a state of exile from his native country. This verse 
teaches us, that however much the world may hate and per- 
secute us,* we ought nevertheless to continue stedfast at our 
post, that we may not deprive ourselves of a right to lay 
claim to the promises of God, or that these may not slip 
away from us; and that, however much and however long 
we may be harassed, we ought always to continue firm and 
unwavering in the faith of our having the call of God. 


2. Surely, behold! the ungodly. Some think that this is 
added as the excuse made by those who desired David to 
save himself by flight. According to others, David expostu- 
lates with his countrymen, who saw death menacing him on 

! “Je response que combien qu'il n’ait non plus este arresté qu'un 
poure oiselet craintif qui saute de branche en branche.”—Fr. 

2 “ Combien que les autres le tenissent pour un homme perdu et duquel 
les affaires estoyent hors d’espoir et qu’ils n’en feissent non plus de cas que 
d’un membre pourri.”—Fr. 

5 “ Nous deteste et poursuyve.”—Fr. 

VOL. I. L 


162 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XI. 


all sides, and yet denied him shelter. But, in my judgment, 
he here continues his account of the trying circumstances in 
which he was placed. His design is not only to place before 
our view the dangers with which he was surrounded, but to 
show us that he was exposed even to death itself. He there- 
fore says, that wherever he might hide himself, it was im- 
possible for him to escape from the hands of his enemies. 
Now, the description of so miserable a condition illustrates 
the more strikingly the grace of God in the deliverance which 
he afterwards granted him. With respect to the words, they 
have fixed their arrows upon the string, to SHOOT SECRETLY, or 
in darkness, some understand them metaphorically of the 
attempts which David’s enemies made to surprise him by 
craft and snares. I, however, prefer this interpretation, as 
being more simple,—that there was no place so hidden into 
which the darts of his enemies did not penetrate, and that, 
therefore, to whatever caves he could betake himself for con- 
cealment and shelter, death would follow him as his insepar- 
able attendant. 


3. Truly, the foundations are destroyed. Some translate the 
word PNY, hashathoth, by nets, a sense in which the Serip- 
ture in other places often uses this word ; and their explana- 
tion of the words is, that the wicked and deceitful arts which 
the ungodly practised against David were defeated. If we 
admit this interpretation, the meaning of what he adds imme- 
diately after, What hath the righteous one done? will be, that 
his escape in safety was owing neither to his own exertion, 
nor to his own skill, but that, without putting forth any effort, 
and when, as it were, he was asleep, he had been delivered 
from the nets and snares of his enemies by the power of God. 
But the word foundations agrees better with the scope of the 
passage, for he evidently proceeds to relate into what straits he 
had been brought and shut up, so that his preservation was 
now to all appearance hopeless. Interpreters, however, who 
hold that foundations is the proper translation of the word, are 
not agreed as to the sense. Some explain it, that he had 
not a single spot on which to fix his foot; others, that cove- 
nants which ought to have stability, by being faithfully 








‘ 
‘ 





PSALM XI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 163 


had been often shamefully violated by Saul. Some 
also understand it allegorically, as meaning that the righteous 
priests of God, who were the pillars of the land, had been 
put to death. But I have no doubt of its being a metaphor 
taken from buildings, which must fall down and become a 
heap of ruins when their foundations are undermined; and 
thus David complains, that, in the eyes of the world, he was 
utterly overthrown, inasmuch as all that he possessed was 
completely destroyed. In the last clause, he again repeats, that 
to be persecuted so cruelly was what he did not deserve : 
What hath the righteous one done? And he asserts his own 
innocence, partly to comfort himself in his calamities from 
the testimony of a good conscience, and partly to encourage 
himself in the hope of obtaining deliverance. That which 
encouraged him to trust in God was the belief which he 
entertained, that on account of the justice of his cause God 
was on his side, and would be favourable to him, 


4. Jehovah is in the palace of his holiness : Jehovah has his 
throne in heaven ; his eyes behold,‘ and his eyelids consider 
the children of men. 

5. Jehovah approves the righteous man ; but his soul hateth the 

ungodly, and him who loveth iniquity. 


4, Jehovah is in the palace of his holiness. In what fol- 
lows, the Psalmist glories in the assurance of the favour of 
God, of which I have spoken. Being destitute of human aid, 
he betakes himself to the providence of God. It is a signal 
proof of faith, as I have observed elsewhere, to take and to 
borrow, so to speak,’ light from heaven to guide us to the 
hope of salvation, when we are surrounded in this world 
with darkness on every side. All men acknowledge that the 
world is governed by the providence of God; but when 
there comes some sad confusion of things, which disturbs 
their ease, and involves them in difficulty, there are few who 
retain in their minds the firm persuasion of this truth. But 
from the example of David, we ought to make such account 


1 The Septuagint has here the addition of Esg rov xevnra, “ the afflict- 
ed one.” ‘ His eyes behold the afflicted one.” 
2 “ De prendre et par maniere de dire, emprunter lumiere du ciel.”—Fr. 


164 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XI. 


of the providence of God as to hope for a remedy from his 
judgment, even when matters are in the most desperate con- 
dition. There is in the words an implied contrast between 
heaven and earth; for if David’s attention had been fixed on 
the state of things in this world, as they appeared to the eye 
of sense and reason, he would have seen no prospect of deli- 
verance from his present perilous circumstances. But this 
was not David’s exercise; on the contrary, when in the 
world all justice lies trodden under foot, and faithfulness has 
perished, he reflects that God sits in heaven perfect and un- 
changed, from whom it became him to look for the restora- 
tion of order from this state of miserable confusion. He 
does not simply say that God dwells in heaven; but that he 
reigns there, as it were, in a royal palace, and has his throne 
of judgment there. Nor do we indeed render to him the 
honour which is his due, unless we are fully persuaded that 
his judgment-seat is a sacred sanctuary for all who are in 
affliction and unrighteously oppressed. When, therefore, 
deceit, craft, treachery, cruelty, violence, and extortion, 
reign in the world; in short, when all things are thrown into 
disorder and darkness by injustice and wickedness, let faith 
serve as a lamp to enable us to behold God’s heavenly 
throne, and let that sight suffice to make us wait in patience 
for the restoration of things to a better state. The temple 
of his holiness, or his holy temple, which is commonly taken 
for Sion, doubtless here signifies heaven ; and that it does so 
is clearly shown by the repetition in the next clause, Jehovah 
has his throne in heaven; for it is certain David expresses 
the same thing twice. 

His eyes behold. Here he infers, from the preceding sen- 
tence, that nothing is hidden from God, and that, therefore, 
men will be obliged to render up to him an account of all that 
they have done. If God reigns in heaven, and if his throne is 
erected there, it follows that he must necessarily attend to the 
affairs of men, in order one day to sit in judgment upon them. 
Epicurus, and such like him as would persuade themselves 
that God is idle, and indulges in repose in heaven, may be 
said rather to spread for him a couch on which to sleep,* than 


1 «Et se repose au ciel, luy font plustost une couche pour dormir.” — 





PSALM XI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 165 


to erect for him a throne of judgment. But it is the glory of 
our faith that God, the Creator of the world, does not disre- 
gard or abandon the order which he himself at first establish- 
ed. And when he suspends his judgments for a time, it 
becomes us to lean upon this one truth—that he beholds from 
heaven ; just as we now see David contenting himself with 
this consolatory consideration alone, that God rules over 
mankind, and observes whatever is transacted in the world, 
although his knowledge, and the exercise of his jurisdiction, 
are not at first sight apparent. This truth is still more 
clearly explained in what is immediately added in the fifth 
verse, that God distinguishes between the righteous and the 
unrighteous, and in such a way as shows that he is not an 
idle spectator; for he is said to approve the righteous, and to 
hate the wicked. The Hebrew word }M3, bachan, which we 
have rendered to approve, often signifies to examine or try. 
But in this passage I explain it as simply meaning, that God 
so inquires into the cause of every man as to distinguish the 
righteous from the wicked. It is farther declared, that God 
hates those who are set upon the infliction of injuries, and 
upon doing mischief. As he has ordained mutual intercourse 
between men, so he would have us to maintain it inviolable. 
In order, therefore, to preserve this his own sacred and 
appointed order, he must be the enemy of the wicked, who 
wrong and are troublesome to others. There is also 
here contrasted God’s hatred of the wicked, and wicked 
men’s love of iniquity, to teach us that those who please 
and flatter themselves in their mischievous practices gain 
nothing by such flatteries, and only deceive themselves. 


6. He will rain upon the ungodly snares, fire and brimstone, and 
a storm of whirlwinds : this is the portion of their cup. 

7. For the righteous Jehovah loveth righteousness ;' his counte- 
nance approveth the upright.’ 


6. He will rain upon the ungodly. David now, in the last 


1“ Car le ee est juste, et aime justice."—Fr. ‘ For the Lord 
is righteous, and loveth righteousness.” ’ 

*“Qa droiture."—Fr. ‘ Uprightness.” ‘Ou, le droiturier,”— Fy. 
marg. “ Or, the upright.” 


166 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XI. 


place, lays it down as a certain truth, that although God, for 
a time, may be still, and delay his judgments, yet the hour 
of vengeance will assuredly come. Thus we see how by 
degrees he rises up to the hope of a happy issue to his pre- 
sent affliction, and he uses his efforts to attain this, that the 
social and moral disorder, which he saw prevailing around 
him, might not weaken his faith. As the tribunal of God 
remains firm and immoyeable, he, in the first place, sustains 
and comforts himself from the consideration, that God from on 
high beholds all that is done here below. In the next 
place, he considers what the office of judge requires, from 
which he concludes, that the actions of men cannot escape 
the inspection of God’s omniscient eye, and that although 
he does not immediately punish their evil deeds, he hates 
all the wicked. Finally, he adds, that since God is armed 
with power, this hatred will not be in vain or ineffectual. 
Thus while God defers the infliction of punishment, the 
knowledge of his justice will have a powerful influence in 
maintaining our faith, until he actually show that he has 
never departed from his watch-tower, from which he beholds 
the actions of men.' He appropriately compares the punish- 
ments which God inflicts to rain. As rain is not constant, 
but the Lord sends it forth when he pleases; and, when the 
weather is calmest and most serene, suddenly raises a storm 
of hail or violent showers of rain; in like manner, it is here 
intimated that the vengeance which will be inflicted on the 
wicked will come suddenly, so that, when they shall be 
indulging in mirth, and intoxicated with their pleasures, and 
“ when they shall say, Peace and safety, sudden destruction 
will come upon them.”? At the same time, David here 
evidently alludes to the destruction of Sodom and Gomor- 
rah. As the prophets, when they would promise the grace of 
God to the elect, remind them of the deliverance from Egypt, 
which God wrought in behalf of his ancient people, so when 
they would alarm the wicked, they threaten them with a 
destruction like that which befell Sodom and Gomorrah, and 


1“ De ee il contemple les faits des hommes.”—. 
Aad Et qu’ils diront paix et asseurance mort soudaine leur adviendra.” 
—Fr 











of ee ae 


PSALM XI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 167 


they do so upon good grounds; since Jude, in his Epistle, 
tells us that these cities “are set forth for an example, suffer- 
ing the vengeance of eternal fire,” (verse 7.) The Psalmist, 
with much beauty and propriety, puts snares’ before fire and 
brimstone. We see that the ungodly, while God spares them, 
fear nothing, but give themselves ample scope in their way- 
ward courses, like horses let loose? in an open field; and 
then, if they see any adversity impending over them, they 
devise for themselves ways of escape : in short, they continu- 
ally mock God, as if they could not be caught, unless he 
first entangle and hold them fast in his snares. God, therefore, 
begins his vengeance by snares, shutting up against the 
wicked every way of escape ; and when he has them entan- 
gled and bound, he thunders upon them dreadfully and hor- 
ribly, like as he consumed Sodom and the neighbouring cities 
with fire from heaven. The word mpyr, zilaphoth, which 
we have rendered whirlwinds, is by some translated hindlings 


1 Horsley reads, ‘‘ glowing embers.” Lowth renders the word “ live 
coals,” i observes, that myn, pachim, means globes of fire, or simply 
the lightning. ‘ This,” says he, “ is certainly more agreeable to the 
context than snares. The root is puach, which, though it some- 
times means fo ensnare, yet more frequently means to breathe forth, or 
emit, fire, for instance. Ezekiel xxi. 31, ‘ In the fire of my wrath I 
will blow upon thee.’ The Ammonites are spoken of as thrown into 
the of the divine wrath: compare chap. xxii. 21, where almost 
the same words occur, except that the corresponding (and in this case 
es ay verb napach is made use of, whence mapnach, a bellows, 
. vi. 29. In the same sense the verb puach is introduced, Prov. 

xxix. 8, ‘ Scorners will inflame a city.’ From this explication of the 
root puach, the word pach, a coal blown up, is rightly derived.”— 
Sacred Poetry of the Hebrews, vol. i. pp. 194, 195. Lowth also states, 
that the Orientals sometimes call the lightning snares or chains, pro- 
bably from the continual corruscations of the lightning in its passage 
ee the a¢ieesun seem to be ees with — er pay chain. 

engstenberg, however, opposes this exposition, and adopts and defends 
that which Cilvis has Pri. * exp,” says he, ‘* must here, according 
to most expositors, be taken as a figurative designation of lightning, 
which is alleged to be called also by the Arabians, in prose and poetry, by 
the name of chains. But it is a sufficient objection to this meaning, —_ 
np does not signify cord, in general, but specially, gin, snare, trap.” 
hgh this, gg hee Pealin ix. 15; Job xviii. 9 ; xxii. 10; Sealed 

, 18; Prov. xxii. 5. “ The expression, that he will rain,” says he, 
‘can present no proper difficulty, as it simply points to the fulness of 
God's retributive judgments, noticed already by Luther, when he says, 
that by it ‘ the prophet indicates the great variety and multitude of the 
evils threatened.’ ” 

3 “ Ainsi que des chevaux desbridez.”—Fr. 


168 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XI. 


or burnings; and by others, commotions or terrors.’ But the 
context requires the interpretation which I have brought 
forward ; for a tempest is raised by stormy winds, and then 
follow thunder and lightning. 

The portion of their cup. By this expression he testifies 
that the judgments of God will certainly take effect, although 
ungodly men may delude themselves by deceitful flattery. 
This metaphor is frequently to be met with in the Scriptures. 
As the carnal mind believes nothing with greater difficulty 
than that the calamities and miseries which seem to be for- 
tuitous, happen according to a just distribution from God, he 
represents himself under the character of a householder, who 
distributes to each member his portion or allowance. David, 
therefore, here intimates that there is certainly a reward 
laid up for the ungodly; that it will be in vain for them 
to resist, when the Lord shall reach to them the cup of his 
wrath to drink; and that the cup prepared for them is not 
such as they may sip drop by drop, but a cup, the whole of 
which they will be compelled to drink, as the prophet 
threatens, (Ezek. xxiii. 34,) “ Thou shalt drink it off even to 
the dregs.” 


7. For the righteous Jehovah loveth righteousness. The 
Psalmist has just now reasoned from the office of God that 
he will punish the wicked, and now, from the nature of God, 
he concludes, that he will be the defender of the good and 


1 Dr Adam Clarke renders the words mexb rm, ruach zilaphoth, * the 
spirit of terrors,” and states, that ‘‘ this may refer to the horribly suffocat- 
ing Arabian wind called Smum.” Bishop Lowth translates the words, 
‘* a burning storm,” upon which Michaelis observes, ‘‘ This is an admirable 
image, and is taken from the school of nature. The wind zilgaphoth, 
which blows from the east, is very pestilential, and, therefore, almost pro- 
verbial among the Orientals... . . Many wonderful stories are related 
of its effects by the Arabians, and their poets feign that the wicked, in their 
place of eternal torment, are to breathe this pestiferous wind as their vital 
air.”—Lowth’s Sacred Poetry, vol. i. p. 193. Hengstenberg translates the 
words wrath-wind, and explains them as simply meaning the divine ry ow 
which breaks forth as a tempest ; and observes, that the vehemence of the 
anger is denoted by the plural number. In opposition to the rendering 
burning, wind, and to the opinion that there is an allusion to the Arabian 
Samum, he states, “* The root, my, has, in Hebrew, the signification of 
ah angry, DO other ; and that of being hot, is not once to be found in the 

ects.” 








a ee ee ee 


PSALM XI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 169 


the upright. As he is righteous, David shows that, as the 
consequence of this, he must love righteousness, for other- 
wise he would deny himself. Besides, it would be a cold 
speculation to conceive of righteousness as inherent in God, 
unless, at the same time, we could come to the settled con- 
clusion that God graciously owns whatever is his own, 
and furnishes evidence of this in the government of the 
world. Some think that the abstract term righteousness is 
put for righteous persons. But, in my opinion, the literal 
sense is here more suitable, namely, that righteousness is 
well pleasing to God, and that, therefore, he favours good 
causes. From this the Psalmist concludes, that the upright 
are the objects of his regard: His countenance approveth the 
upright. He had said a little before in a different sense, 
that God beholds the children of men, meaning that he will 
judge the life of every man; but here he means that God 
graciously exercises a special care over the upright and the 
sincere, takes them under his protection, and keeps them 
in perfect safety. This conclusion of the psalm sufficiently 
shows, that the scope of the whole of it was to make it mani- 
fest that all those who, depending upon the grace of God, 
sincerely follow after righteousness, shall be safe under his 
protection. The Psalmist himself was one of this number, 
and, indeed, the very chief of them. This last clause, His 
countenance approveth the upright, is, indeed, variously ex- 
plained ; but the true meaning, I have no doubt, is, that God 
has always a regard for the upright, and never turns away 
his eyes from them. It is a strained interpretation to view 
the words as meaning that the upright shall behold the face 
of God. But I will not stop to refute the opinions of other 
men. 


170 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XII, 


PSALM XII. 


David, deploring the wretched and forlorn condition of his people, and 
the utter overthrow of good order, beseeches God to afford them 
speedy relief. Then, in order to comfort both himself and all the 
godly, after having mentioned God’s promise of assisting his people, 
he magnifies his faithfulness and constancy in performing his promises. 
From this he concludes, that at length God will deliver the godly, even 
when the world may be in a state of the greatest corruption.* tos 


{ To the chief musician upon the eighth. A song of David. 


1. Save-me,-0 Jéhovah:; ‘for the wmarciful avin hab tala 
the faithful are wasted away from among the children of 
men. ‘iieilite 

2. Every one speaketh deceit [or falsehood] with his neighbour; 
they speak with lips of flattery, with a double heart? 


To the chief musician upon the eighth. With respect to the — 
word eighth, there are two opinions among interpreters. — 
According to some, it means a musical instrument; while — 
others are rather inclined to think that it is a tune, — 
But as it is of no great importance which of these opinions 
is adopted, I do not trouble myself much about this matter. 
The conjecture of some, that it was the beginning of a song, 
does not seem to me to be so probable as that it refers to the 
tune, and was intended to point out how the psalm was to 
be sung.* In the commencement David complains that the 


1 “ Voire au temps mesmes qu'il n’y aura foy ni equite au monde.” —Fr, 
‘¢ Even when there is neither faith nor equity in the world.” 

2 Calvin’s words literally rendered are, with a heart and a heart, and 
this is a very literal translation of the Hebrew words 3h abs, be-leb va-leb. 
On the margin of the French version, he reads, “* De cceeur double,” 
‘with a double heart,” which explains the meaning of the other phrase. 
‘‘ With a heart and a heart,” is a form of expression which forcibly de- 
scribes the character of deceitful men. “They seem to have two hearts,” 
says Dr Adam Clarke, “‘ one to speak fair words, and the other to invent 
mischief.” 

8 «« Et que c’est pour exprimer comment se devoit chanter le pseaume.” 
—Fr. 





_ PSALM XI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 171 


_ land was so overspread with wicked men, and persons who 

had broken forth into the commission of every kind of 

_ wickedness, that the practice of righteousness and justice had 
ceased, and none were found to defend the cause of the good ; 
in short, that there remained no longer either humanity 
or faithfulness. It is probable that the Psalmist here speaks 
of the time when Saul persecuted him, because then all, from 
the highest to the lowest, had conspired to destroy an innocent 
and an afflicted man. It is a thing very distressing to 
relate, and yet it was perfectly true, that righteousness was 
so utterly overthrown among the chosen people of God, that 
all of them, with one consent, from their hostility to a good 
and just cause, had broken forth into acts of outrage and 
cruelty. David does not here accuse strangers or foreigners, 
but informs us that this deluge of iniquity prevailed in the 
Church of God. Let the faithful, therefore, in our day, 
not be unduly discouraged at the melancholy sight of a 
very corrupt and confused state of the world; but let them 
consider that they ought to bear it patiently, seemg their 
condition is just like that of David in time past. And it is 
to be observed, that, when David calls upon God for succour, 
he encourages himself in the hope of obtaining it from this, 

. that there was no uprightness among men ; so that from his 
example we may learn to betake ourselves to God when we 
see nothing around us but black despair. We ought to 
be fully persuaded of this, that the greater the confusion 
of things in the world is, God is so much the readier to aid 
and succour his people,’ and that it is then the most proper 
season for him to interpose his assistance. 


1. The merciful man hath failed. Some think that this is 
a complaint that the righteous had been unjustly put to 
death ; as if the Psalmist had said, Saul has cruelly cut off 
all who observed justice and faithfulness. But I would under- 
stand the words in a simpler sense, as meaning that there is 
no longer any beneficence or truth remaining among men. 
He has expressed in these two words in what true righteous- 


*« Tant plus Dieu est prest d’aider et secourir les siens.”—Fr. 


172 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XII. 


ness consists. As there are two kinds of unrighteousness, 
violence and deceit; so men live righteously when, in their 


intercourse with each other, they conscientiously abstain 
from doing any wrong or injury to one another, and cultivate 
peace and mutual friendship; when they are neither lions 
nor foxes. When, however, we see the world in such a state 
of disorder as is here described, and are afflicted thereby, 
we ought to be careful not to howl with the wolves, nor to 
suffer ourselves to be carried away with the dissipation and 
overflowing flood of iniquity which we see prevailing around 
_ us, but should rather imitate the example of Dayid. 


2. Every man speaketh deceit. David in this verse sets 
forth that part of unrighteousness which is contrary to truth. 
He says that there is no sincerity or uprightness in their 
speech, because the great object upon which they are bent is 
to deceive. He next describes the manner in which they 
deceive, namely, that every man endeavours to ensnare his 
neighbour by flattery. He also points out the fountain and 
first cause of this, They speak with a double heart. This 
doubleness of heart, as I may term it, makes men double and 
variable in their speech, in order thereby to disguise them- 
selves in different ways,’ or to make themselves appear to 
others different from what they really are. Hence the Hebrew 
word mypbn, chalakoth, which denotes flattery, is derived 
from a word which signifies division. As those who are 
resolved to act truthfully in their intercourse with their 
neighbours, freely and ingenuously lay open their whole heart ; 
so treacherous and deceitful persons keep a part of their 
feeling hidden within their own breasts, and cover it with 
the varnish of hypocrisy and a fair outside; so that from 
their speech we cannot gather any thing certain with respect 
to their intentions. . Our speech, therefore, must be sincere 
in order that it may be as it were a mirror, in which the 
uprightness of our heart may be beheld. 


1 Horsley reads ‘ smooth lips.” “ Not smooth,” says he, ** with flattery, 
but with glosing lies, with ensnaring eloquence and specious arguments 
in support of the wretched cause which they pene. 

2 “ Pour se disguiser en diverses sortes.”—F'’r. 


ee ee —— ee 








PSALM XII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 173 


3. Let Jehovah cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that 
speaketh great [or proud] things : 

4, Those who have said we will be strengthened by our tongues ; 
our lips are in our own power : who is lord over us ? 


To his complaint in the preceding verse he now subjoins 
an imprecation, that God would cut off deceitful tongues. 
It is uncertain whether he wishes that deceitful men may be 
utterly destroyed, or only that the means of doing mischief 
may be taken from them; but the scope of the passage leads 
us rather to adopt the first sense, and to view David as 
desiring that God, by some means or other, would remove 
that plague out of the way. Ashe makes no mention of 
malice, while he inveighs so vehemently against their en- 
yenomed tongues, we hence conclude, that he had suffered 
much more injury from the latter than from the former; 
and certainly falsehood and calumnies are more deadly than 
swords and all other kind of weapons. From the second 
clause of the third verse it appears more clearly what kind 
of flatterers they were of whom mention was made in the 
preceding verse: The tongue that speaketh great or proud 
things. Some flatter ina slavish and fulsome manner, de- 
claring that they are ready to do and suffer any thing which 
they possibly can for our benefit. But David here speaks of 
another kind of flatterers, namely, those who in flattering 
proudly boast of what they will accomplish, and mingle base 
effrontery and threatening with their deceitful arts. He 
does not, therefore, speak of the herd of mean conceited per- 
sons among the common people who make a trade of flatter- 
ing, that they may live at other people’s expense;! but he 
points his imprecation against the great calumniators of the 
court to which he was attached,’ who not only insinuated 


1 “Tl ne parle donc pas d’un tas de faquins du commun peuple, qui font 
estat de flatter pour avoir la lippee franche.”—Fr. 

2 ** The occasion on which this psalm was composed is not expressed, 
but it is a sad complaint of the corrupt manners of that age, (especially of 
the court of Saul, v. 3,) in which it was hard to find an honest tain-deal- 
ing man, in whom one might confide. Some think it aims partly at Doeg, 
and such like courtiers; partly at the Ziphites, and such dious people 
in the country, who, promising him their friendship, (as Theodoret under- 
stands it,) would have most basely betrayed him unto Saul, his declared 
enemy.”—Bishop Patrick's Paraphrase on the Book of Psalms. 


174 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XII, | 


themselves by gentle arts, but also lied designedly in boast-— 
ing of themselves, and in the big and haughty discourse with 
which they overwhelmed the poor and simple. . 

This the Psalmist confirms more fully in the following — 
verse: Who have said, we will be strengthened by our tongues. — 
Those must be possessed of great authority who think 
that, in the very falsehood to which they are addicted, 
they have enough of strength to accomplish their purposes, — 
and to protect themselves. It is the utmost height of — 
wickedness for persons to break out into such presump- 
tion, that they scruple not to overthrow all law and equity 
by their arrogant and boasting language; for, in doing this, 
it is just as if they openly declared war against God him- — 
self. Some read, we will strengthen our tongues. This — 
reading is passable, in so far as the sense is concerned, — 
but it scarcely agrees with the rules of grammar, because 
the letter 4 lamed, is added. Moreover, the sense which 
is more suitable is this: that the wicked persons spoken of — 
being armed with their tongues, go beyond all bounds, and — 
think they can accomplish by this means whatever they 
please; just as this set of men so deform every thing 
with their calumnies, that they would almost cover the sun 
himself with darkness. 


5. Because of the spoiling? of the needy, because of the groaning — 
of the poor, Iwill now arise, Jehovah will say ; I will set 
in safety him whom he snareth.® 

6. The words of Jehovah are pure words : silver melted in an 
excellent crucible of earth, purified seven times. 


5. Because of the spoiling of the needy. David now sets 
before himself as matter of consolation, the truth that God _ 
will not suffer the wicked thus to make havoc without end and 
measure. The more effectually to establish himself and others — 
in the belief of this truth, he introduces God himself as speak- _ 


1 “ Mais qui mentent & plaisir en se vantans et tenans braves et — 


3 Coluy a qui le meschant tend des laqs."—Fr. ‘* Him for whom the 
wicked lays snares.”—Heb. ‘‘ Il luy tend des laqs."—Fr. marg. “I will — 
set in safety ; he lays snares for him.” 





a 


PSALM XII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 175 


ing. The expression is more emphatic when God is repre- 
sented as coming forward and declaring with his own mouth 
that he is come to deliver the poor and distressed. There is 
also great emphasis in the adverb now, by which God inti- 
mates that, although our safety is in his hand, and, therefore, 
in secure keeping, yet he does not immediately grant deliver- 
ance from affliction; for his words imply that he had hitherto 
been, as it were, lying still and asleep, until he was awakened 
by the calamities and the cries of his people. When, there- 
fore, the injuries, the extortions, and the devastations of our 
enemies leave us nothing but tears and groans, let us remem- 
ber that now the time is at hand when God intends to rise 
up to execute judgment. This doctrine should also serve to 
produce in us patience, and prevent us from taking it ill, that 
we are reckoned among the number of the poor and afflicted, 
whose cause God promises to take into his own hand. 

With respect to the meaning of the second clause of the 
verse, expositors differ. According to some, to set in safety, 
means the same thing as ¢o give or bring safety, as if the 
letter 3, beth, which signifies in, were superfluous. But the 
language rather contains a promise to grant to those who are 
unjustly oppressed, full restitution. What follows is attend- 

. ed with more difficulty. The word M)5, phuach, which we 
have rendered to lay snares for, sometimes signifies to blow 
out, or to puff,—at other times ¢o ensnare, or to lay snares for ; 
and sometimes, also, to speak. Those who think it is here 
put for to speak also differ among themselves with respect to 
the meaning. Some render it God will speak to himself ; that 
is to say, God will determine with himself; but as the 
Psalmist had already declared the determination of God, this 
would be an unnecessary and vain repetition. Others refer 
it to the language of the godly, as if David introduced them 
speaking one to another concerning the faithfulness and 
stability of the promises of God; for with this word they 
connect the following sentence, The words of the Lord are pure 
words, §c. But this view is even more strained than the 
preceding. The opinion of others, who suppose, that to 
the determination of God ¢# arise, there is subjoined the 
language which is addressed to the godly, is more admissible. 


176 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XII. | 


It would not be sufficient for God to determine with him- 


self what he would do for our safety, if he did not speak to 
us expressly, and by name. It is only when God makes us 
to understand, by his own voice, that he will be gracious to 
us, that we can entertain the hope of salvation. God, it is 
true, speaks also to unbelievers, but without producing any 
good effect, seeing they are deaf; just as when he treats them 
with gentleness and liberality, it is without effect, because 
they are stupid, and devour his benefits without any sense of 
their coming from him. But as I perceive that under the 
word “\QXN', yomar, will say, the promises of God may be 
suitably and properly comprehended, to avoid a repetition of 
the same thing, I adopt without hesitation the sense of the 
last clause, which I have given in the translation, namely, 
that God declares he will arise to restore to safety those who 
seem on all sides to be environed by the snares of their ene- 
mies, and even caught in them. The import of the language 
is this: The ungodly may hold the poor and afflicted en- 
tangled in their snares as a prey which they have caught; 
but I will set them in safety. If it should be replied, that 
the reading in the Hebrew is not for whom, but for him, I 
would observe, that it is no new thing for these words, him, 
Sor him, to be used instead of whom and for whom.’ If any 
one prefer the sense of puffing at, I am not disposed greatly 
to oppose him. According to this reading, David would 
elegantly taunt the pride of the ungodly, who confidently 
imagine they can do any thing,’ even with their breath, as 
we have seen in the tenth psalm, at the fifth verse. 


6. The words of Jehovah. The Psalmist now declares, 
that God is sure, faithful, and stedfast in his promises. But 


the insertion by the way of this commendation of the word 
of God would be to no purpose, if he had not first called 
himself, and other believers, to meditate on God’s pro- 


1“ Et quant & ce qu’on pourroit replicquer qu'il n'y a pas en l’He- 
brieu A qui, mais Luy, ce n’est aoe chose nouvelle que ces mots Le, Luy se 
prenent pour Qui et A qui.”—¥Fr. 

* “Quils renverseront tout i souffler seulement.”—Fr. ‘ That they 
shall overthrow all simply by their breath.” 









= one 





PSALM XII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 177 


mises in their afflictions. Accordingly, the order of the 
Psalmist is to be attended to, namely, that, after telling us 
how God gives to his servants the hope of speedy deliver- 
ance, even in their deepest distresses, he now adds, to 
support their faith and hope, that God promises nothing 
in yain, or for the purpose of disappointing man. This, at 
first sight, seems a matter of small importance; but if any 
person consider more closely and attentively how prone the 
minds of men are to distrust and ungodly doubtings, he will 
easily perceive how requisite it is for our faith to be sup- 
ported by this assurance, that God is not deceitful, that he 
does not delude or beguile us with empty words, and that he 
does not magnify beyond all measure either his power or his 
goodness, but that whatever he promises in word he will 
perform in deed. There is no man, it is true, who will not 
frankly confess that he entertains the same conviction which 
David here records, that the words of Jehovah are pure; 
but those who while lying in the shade and living at 
their ease liberally extol by their praises the truth of 
God’s word, when they come to struggle with adversity in 
good earnest, although they may not venture openly to 
pour forth blasphemies against God, often charge him with 
not keeping his word. Whenever he delays his assistance, 
we call in question his fidelity to his promises and mur- 
mur just as if he had deceived us. There is no truth which 
is more generally received among men than that God is 
true; but thére are few who frankly give him credit for 
this when they are in adversity. It is, therefore, highly 
necessary for us to cut off the occasion of our distrust ; 
and whenever any doubt respecting the faithfulness of God’s 
promises steals in upon us, we ought immediately to lift 
up against it this shield, that the words of the Lord are 
pure. The similitude of silver, which the Psalmist sub- 
joins, is indeed far below the dignity and excellence of so 
great a subject; but it is very well adapted to the measure 
of our limited and imperfect understanding. Silver, if tho- 
roughly refined, is valued at a high price amongst us. But 
we are far from manifesting for the word of God, the price of 
which is inestimable, an equal regard ; and its purity is of less 
VOL, I. M 


178 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XII. 


account with us than that of a corruptible metal. Yea, a great 
many coin mere dross in their own brain, by which to efface 
or obscure the brightness which shines in the word of God. 
The word by 3, baiilil, which we have translated crucible, is 
interpreted by many prince, or lord, as if it were a simple 
word. According to them, the meaning would be, that the 
word of God is like the purest silver, from which the dross 
has been completely removed with the greatest art and care, 
not for common use, but for the service of a great lord or 
prince of some country. I, however, rather agree with others 
who consider that bby, badlil, is a word compounded of the 
letter 3, beth, which signifies in, and the noun Sry, alil, which 
signifies a clean or well polished vessel or crucible. 


7. Thou, O Jehovah, wilt keep them; thou wilt preserve him 
From this generation for ever. 

8. The ungodly walk about on every side; when they are ex- 
alted, there is reproach to the children of men. 


7. Thou, O Jehovah. Some think that the language of 
the Psalmist here is that of renewed prayer; and they, there- 
fore, understand the words as expressive of his desire, and 
translate them in the optative mood, thus, Do thou, O Jeho- 
vah, keep them.1 But I am rather of opinion that David, 
animated with holy confidence, boasts of the certain safety 
of all the godly, of whom God, who neither can deceive nor 
lie, avows himself to be the guardian. At the same time, I 
do not altogether disapprove of the interpretation which 
views David as renewing his supplications at the throne of 
grace. Some give this exposition of the passage, Thou 
wilt keep them, namely, thy words ;? but this does not seem 


1 “ Que tu les gardes, Seigneur.”—Fr. 

2 This is the view adopted by Hammond. He refers the them to the 
words of the Lord mentioned in the preceding verse, and the him follow- 
ing to the godly, or just man, and explains the verse thus: “*Thou, O 
Lord, shalt keep, or perform, those words, thou shalt preserve the just 
man 0g = ogee ee ever.” a Chaldee Rese cea “Thou 

ilt keep the just ;” the ptuagin t, Vulgate, Arabic, an iopic ver- 
sions read, “ Thou wilt keep us.” oy j 





ee 


PSALM XII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 179 


to me to be suitable.'| David, I have no doubt, returns 
to speak of the poor, of whom he had spoken in the pre- — 
ceding part of the psalm. With respect to his changing 
the number, (for, he says first, Thou wilt heep them, and, 
next, Thou wilt preserve him,’) it is a thing quite common in 
Hebrew, and the sense is not thereby rendered ambiguous. 
These two sentences, therefore, Thou wilt keep them, and 
Thou wilt preserve him, signify the same thing, unless, per- 
haps, we may say that, in the second, under the person of 
one man, the Psalmist intends to point out the small number 
of good men. To suppose this is not unreasonable or im- 
probable; and, according to this view, the import of his 
language is, Although only one good man should be left 
alive in the world, yet he would be kept in perfect safety by 
the grace and protection of God. But as the Jews, when 
they speak generally, often change the number, I leave my 
readers freely to form their own judgment. This, indeed, 
cannot be controverted, that by the word generation, or race, 
is denoted a great multitude of ungodly persons, and almost 
the whole body of the people. As the Hebrew word ‘)%, 
dor, signifies as well the men who live in the same age, as the 
space of time itself, David, without doubt, here means that 
the servants of God cannot escape, and continue safe, unless 
God defend them against the malice of the whole people, 
and deliver them from the wicked and perverse men of 
the age in which they live. Whence we learn that the 
world, at that time, was so corrupt, that David, by way of 
reproach, puts them all, as it were, into one bundle. More- 
over, it is of importance again to remember what we have 
already stated, that he does not here speak of foreign na- 
tions, but of the Israelites, and God’s chosen people. It 
is well to mark this carefully, that we may not be dis- 
couraged by the vast multitude of the ungodly, if we should 
sometimes see an immense heap of chaff upon the barn- 
floor of the Lord, while only a few grains of corn lie hidden 


1“ Mais quant & ceux qui disent, Tu les garderas, asgavoir, Tes paroles ; 
Yexposition ne me semble pas propre.”—Fr. 

* “Car il dit premierement, Z'u les garderas; et puis, 7'u le preser- 
veras.”—Fr. 


180 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIT. 


underneath. And then, however small may be the number 
of the good, let this persuasion be deeply fixed in our minds, 
that God will be their protector, and that for ever. The 
word D ay, leolam, which signifies for ever, is added, that 
we may learn to extend our confidence in God far into the 
future, seeing he commands us to hope for succour from him, 
not only once, or for one day, but as long as the wickedness 
of our enemies continues its work of mischief. We are, 
however, from this passage, at the same time, admonished 
that war is not prepared against us for a short time only, 
but that we must daily engage in the conflict. And if the 
guardianship which God exercises over the faithful is some- 
times hidden, and is not manifest in its effects, let them wait 
in patience until he arise; and the greater the flood of cala- 
mities which overflows them, let them keep themselves so 
much the more in the exercise of godly fear and solicitude. 


8. The ungodly walk about on every side. The Hebrew 
word 3°3D, sabib, which we have translated on every side, 
signifies @ circuit, or a going round; and, therefore, some 
explain it allegorically thus: the ungodly seize upon all the 
defiles or narrow parts of roads, in order to shut up or besiege 
the good on all sides; and others expound it even more inge- 
niously, thus : that they lay snares by indirect means, and by 
inventions full of art and deception. But I think the simple 
meaning is, that they possess the whole land, and range 
about through every part of it; as if the Psalmist had said, 
Wherever I turn my eyes, I see troops of them on every side. 
In the next clause he complains that mankind are shamefully 
and basely oppressed by their tyranny. This is the meaning, 
provided the clause is read as a distinct one by itself, sepa- 
rate from the preceding, a point about which interpreters 
differ, although this view seems to come nearer to the mind 
of the inspired writer. Some render the verse in one con- 
tinuous sentence, thus: The ungodly fly about every where, 
when the reproaches among the children of men (that is to 
say, when the worthless and the refuse of men) are exalted, 
an exposition which is not unsuitable. It commonly happens, 
that as diseases flow from the head into the members, so 





PSALM XIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 181 


corruptions proceed from princes, and infect the whole people. 
As, however, the former exposition is more generally received, 
and the most learned grammarians tell us that the Hebrew 
word nvr, zuluth, which we have translated reproach, is a 
noun of the singular number, I have adopted the former 
exposition, not that I am dissatisfied with the latter, but 
because we must needs choose the one or the other. 


PSALM XIII, 


The subject of this psalm is almost the same as that of the preceding. 
Dayid, being afflicted, not only with the deepest distress, but also feel- 
ing himself, as it were, overwhelmed by a long succession of calamities 
and multiplied afflictions, implores the aid and succour of God, the only 
remedy which remained for him ; and, in the close, taking courage, he 
entertains the assured hope of life from the promise of God, even 
amidst the terrors of death. 


{ To the chief musician. A song of David. 


1. How long, O Jehovah, wilt thou forget me, for ever? how 
long wilt thou hide thy face from me ? 

2. How long shall I take counsel in my soul? and have sorrow 
in my heart daily? how long shall mine enemy be exalted 
over me ? 


1. How long, O Jehovah. It is very true that David was so 
greatly hated by the generality of people, on account of the 
calumnies and false reports which had been circulated against 
him, that almost all men judged that God was not less hostile 
to him than Saul' and his other enemies were. But here he 
speaks not so much according to the opinion of others, as 


1 Tt was the opinion of Theodoret that this psalm was composed by 
David, not during his persecution by Saul, but when Absalom conspired 
inst him; and the reason which he assigns for this opinion is, “ that 
the trouble which Saul gave him was before his great sin, and so he was 
full of confidence ; but that of Absalom was after it, which made him cry 
out in this doleful manner.” —Bishop Patrick’s Paraphrase on the Book of 


Psalms. 


182 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIII. 


according to the feeling of his own mind, when he complains 
of being neglected by God. Not that the persuasion of the 
truth of God’s promises was extinguished in his heart, or that 
he did not repose himself on his grace; but when we are for 
a long time weighed down by calamities, and when we do not 
perceive any sign of divine aid, this thought unavoidably forces 
itself upon us, that God has forgotten us. To acknowledge 
in the midst of our afflictions that God has really a care 
about us, is not the usual way with men, or what the feel- 
ings of nature would prompt ; but by faith we apprehend his 
invisible providence. Thus, it seemed to David, so far as 
could be judged from beholding the actual state of his 
affairs, that he was forsaken of God. At the same time, 
however, the eyes of his mind, guided by the light of 
faith, penetrated even to the grace of God, although it was 
hidden in darkness. When he saw not a single ray of 
good hope to whatever quarter he turned, so far as human 
reason could judge, constrained by grief, he cries out that 
God did not regard him; and yet by this very complaint he 
gives evidence that faith enabled him to rise higher, and to 
conclude, contrary to the judgment of the flesh, that his wel- 
fare was secure in the hand of God. Had it been otherwise, 
how could he direct his groanings and prayers to him? Fol- 
lowing this example, we must so wrestle against temptations 
as to be assured by faith, even in the very midst of the conflict, 
that the calamities which urge us to despair must be over- 
come; just as we see that the infirmity of the flesh could not 
hinder David from seeking God, and having recourse to him: 
and thus he has united in his exercise, very beautifully, affec- 
tions which are apparently contrary to each other. The words, 
How long, for ever? are a defective form of expression; but 
they are much more emphatic than if he had put the ques- 
tion according to the usual mode of speaking, Why for so 
long a time? By speaking thus, he gives us to understand, 
that for the purpose of cherishing his hope, and encouraging 
himself in the exercise of patience, he extended his view to a 
distance, and that, therefore, he does not complain of acalamity 
of a few days’ duration, as the effeminate and the cowardly are 
accustomed to do, who see only what is before their feet, and 








a 


PSALM XIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 183 


immediately succumb at the first assault. He teaches us, 
therefore, by his example, to stretch our view as far as 
possible into the future, that our present grief may not 
entirely deprive us of hope. 


2. How long shail I take counsel in my soul? We know 
that men in adversity give way to discontent, and look 
around them, first to one quarter, and then to another, in 
search of remedies. Especially, upon seeing that they are 
destitute of all resources, they torment themselves greatly, 
and are distracted by a multitude of thoughts ; and in great 
dangers, anxiety and fear compel them to change their pur- 
poses from time to time, when they do not find any plan 
upon which they can fix with certainty. David, therefore, 
complains, that while thinking of different methods of obtain- 
ing relief, and deliberating with himself now in one way, and 
now in another, he is exhausted to no purpose with the mul- 
titude of suggestions which pass through his mind; and by 
joining to this complaint the sorrow which he felt daily, he 
points out the source of this disquietude. As in severe 
sickness the diseased would desire to change their place 
every moment, and the more acute the pains which afflict 
them are, the more fitful and eager are they im shifting and 
changing ; so, when sorrow seizes upon the hearts of men, 
its miserable victims are violently agitated within, and they 
find it more tolerable to torment themselves without obtain- 
ing relief, than to endure their afflictions with composed and 
tranquil minds. The Lord, indeed, promises to give to the 
faithful “ the spirit of counsel,” (Is. xi. 2;) but he does not 
always give it to them at the very beginning of any matter 
in which they are interested, but suffers them for a time to 
be embarrassed by long deliberation without coming to a 
determinate decision,’ or to be perplexed, as if they were 
entangled among thorns, not knowing whither to turn,? or 
what course to take. Some explain the Hebrew word Dp)’, 
yomam, as meaning all the day long. But it seems to me, 


1 “ Mais permet que pour un temps ils s’entortillent en de longs dis- 
cours sans venir au poinct.”—Fr. 
2 “ Ne scachans ou se tourner.”—Fr. 


184 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIII. 


that by it is rather meant another kind of continuance, 
namely, that his sorrow returned, and was renewed every 
day. In the end of the verse he deplores another evil, that his 
adversaries triumph over him the more boldly, when they see 
him wholly enfeebled, and as it were wasted by continual 
languor. Now this is an argument of great weight in our 
prayers; for there is nothing which is more displeasing to 
God, and which he will less bear with, than the cruel inso- 
lence which our enemies display, when they not only feast 
themselves by beholding us in misery, but also rise up the 
higher against us, and treat us the more disdainfully, the more 
they see us oppressed and afflicted. 


3. Behold, [or look upon me,] answer me, O Jehovah my 
God ; enlighten mine eyes, lest I sleep in death ; 

4. Lest my enemy say, I have prevailed against him ; and 
those who afflict me rejoice tf I should fall. 


3. Look upon me, answer me. As when God does not 
promptly afford assistance to his servants, it seems to the eye 
of sense that he does not behold their necessities, David, 
for this reason, asks God, in the first place, to look upon him, 
and, in the second place, to succour him. Neither of these 
things, it is true, is prior or posterior in respect of God; but 
it has been already stated in a preceding psalm, and we will 
have occasion afterwards frequently to repeat the statement, 
that the Holy Spirit purposely accommodates to our under- 
standing the models of prayer recorded in Scripture. If 
David had not been persuaded that God had his eyes upon 
him, it would have availed him nothing to cry to God; but 
this persuasion was the effect of faith. In the meantime, 
until God actually puts forth his hand to give relief, carnal 
reason suggests to us that he shuts his eyes, and does not 
behold us. The manner of expression here employed amounts 
to the same thing as if he had put the mercy of God in the 
first place, and then added to it his assistance, because God 
then hears us, when, having compassion upon us, he is moved 
and induced to succour us. To enlighten the eyes signifies 
the same thing in the Hebrew language as to give the breath 





a XIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 185 


life, for the vigour of life appears chiefly in the eyes. In 
_ this sense Solomon says, (Prov. xxix. 13,) “The poor and the 
deceitful man meet together; the Lord lighteneth both their 
eyes.” And when Jonathan fainted for hunger, the sacred 
history relates that his eyes were overcast with dimness ; 
and again, that when he had tasted of the honeycomb, his 
eyes were enlightened, (1 Sam. xiv. 27.) The word s/eep, as 
it is used in this passage, is a metaphor of a similar kind, 
being put for death. In short, David confesses, that unless 
God cause the light of life to shine upon him, he will be 
immediately overwhelmed with the darkness of death, and 
that he is already as a man without life, unless God breathe 
into him new vigour. And certainly our confidence of life 
depends on this, that although the world may threaten us 
with a thousand deaths, yet God is possessed of numberless 
means of restoring us to life.’ 


4, Lest my enemy. David again repeats what he had a 
little before said concerning the pride of his enemies, namely, 
how it would be a thing ill becoming the character of God 
were he to abandon his servant to the mockery of the 
ungodly. David’s enemies lay, as it were, in ambush 
. watching the hour of his ruin, that they might deride him 
when they saw him fall. And as it is the peculiar office of 
God to repress the audacity and insolence of the wicked, as 
often as they glory in their wickedness, David beseeches 
God to deprive them of the opportunity of indulging in 
such boasting. It is, however, to be observed, that he had 
in his conscience a sufficient testimony to his own inte- 
grity, and that he trusted also in the goodness of his 
cause, so that it would have been unbecoming and unrea- 
sonable had he been left without succour in danger, and 
had he been overwhelmed by his enemies. We can, there- 
fore, with confidence pray for ourselves, in the manner in 
whieh David here does for himself, only when we fight 
under the standard of God, and are obedient to his orders, so 


1 “ Toutesfois Dieu ha en main des moyens infinis de nous restablir en 
vie, . Fi Tr. 


186 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIII, 


that our enemies cannot obtain the victory over us without 
wickedly triumphing over God himself. 


5. But I trust in thy goodness ; my heart shall eault in thy — 
salvation. I will sing unto the Lord, because he hath dealt 
bountifully with me." 


The Psalmist does not as yet feel how much he has profited — 
by praying; but depending upon the hope of deliverance, — 
which the faithful promise of God enabled him to entertain, 
he makes use of this hope as a shield to repel those tempta- 
tions with the terror of which he might be greatly distressed. — 
Although, therefore, he is severely afflicted, and a multiplicity — 
of cares urge him to despair, he, notwithstanding, declares it 
to be his resolution to continue firm in his reliance upon the 
grace of God, and in the hope of salvation. With the very — 
same confidence ought all the godly to be furnished and — 
sustained, that they may duly persevere in prayer. Whence, — 
also, we gather what I have formerly adverted to, that it 
is by faith we apprehend the grace of God, which is hidden — 
from and unknown to the understanding of the flesh. As 
the verbs which the Psalmist uses are not put in the same 
tense, different meanings may be drawn from the different 
tenses ; but David, I have no doubt, here wishes to testify — 
that he continued firm in the hope of the deliverance pro- 
mised to him, and would continue so even to the end, how-— 
ever heavy the burden of temptations which might press upon 
him. Accordingly, the word exult is put in the future tense, 
to denote the continued exercise of the affection spoken of, 
and that no affliction shall ever shake out of his heart the 
joy of faith. It is to be observed, that he places the good- 


1 The Septuagint here add another line, namely, “ Kas barre tT! 
évomars Kupsov tov oiorov,” “ And I will sing to the name of 
the Most High.” This line, which is the same with that which concludes 
the seventh psalm, has probably been lost in the Hebrew copy. “The — 
conclusion of the psalm,” says Lowth, “‘ is manifestly defective ; it ends with 
an odd hemistich wanting its aevigen Pe e LXX. have happily © 
preserved it. . . . That it is not a double translation of the single hemi- 
stich, now in the Hebrew, is apparent from the difference of the latter 
Greek hemistich, which does not at all prt sag with the words of the | 
former.”—Dr Lowth in Merrick’s note on this p 





i 
i 

? 

3 


N PSALM XIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 187 


ness of God first in order, as being the cause of his deliver- 
_ ance,—ZI will sing unto the Lord. I translate this into the 
future tense. David, it is true, had not yet obtained what 
he earnestly desired, but being fully convinced that God was 
already at hand to grant him deliverance, he pledges himself 
to give thanks to him for it. And surely it becomes us 
to engage in prayer in such a frame of mind as at the 
same time to be ready to sing the praises of God; a thing 
which is impossible, unless we are fully persuaded that 
our prayers will not be ineffectual. We may not be wholly 
free from sorrow, but it is nevertheless necessary that 
this cheerfulness of faith rise above it, and put into our 
mouth a song on account of the joy which is reserved for 
us in the future, although not as yet experienced by us;!' 
just as we see David here preparing himself to celebrate in 
songs the grace of God, before he perceives the issue of his 
troubles. The word 59}, gamal,’ which others render to re- 
ward, signifies nothing else here than to bestow a benefit from 
pure grace, and this is its meaning in many other passages of 
Seripture. What kind of thanksgiving, I pray you to con- 
sider, would that be, to say that God rewarded and rendered 
to his servant due recompense? ‘This is sufficient to refute 
. the absurd and trifling sophism of those who wrest this pass- 
age to prove the merit of works. In short, the only thing 
which remains to be observed is, that David, in hastening 
with promptitude of soul to sing of God’s benefits before 
he had received them, places the deliverance, which was then 
apparently at a distance, immediately before his eyes. 


1 “ Qui ne nous est point encore presente.”—Fr. 

2 So signifies “‘ to return, to requite, to recompense, in whatever manner, 
whether evil for evil, good for evil, evil for good, or good for good.” 
—Parkhurst. "Those who argue from this passage for the merit of good, 
works, make the argument to rest on the notion of retribution attached 
to the word. But although it uniformly meant to reward, no conclusive 
argument could here be drawn from this ge in support of that doc- 
trine. What God bestows upon his people is sometimes called a reward 
in Scripture ; not, however, use they can claim it as due to them by 
justice, but to express God’s approbation of obedience, and the connec- 
tion between obedience Fay hap aoe. Pigs AegPncwd means to deal 
kindly with, especially when ap to G exix. 17, and 
exlii. 8. The word has this Soatiee in Arabic ; and that it is to be thus un- 
derstood in the ge before us is supported by the ancient versions. The 
Septuagint fea cio ergjoaves ; and the Vulgate, bona tribuit, hath be- 

"stowed upon me good. The Arabic and Zthiopic adopt the same reading. 


188 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIV. — 


PSALM XIV. 


In the beginning the Psalmist describes the wicked contempt of God 
into which almost the whole people had broken forth. To give the 
greater weight to his complaint, he represents God himself as uttering 
it. Afterwards he comforts himself and others with the hope of a 
remedy, which he assures himself God will very soon provide, although, 
in the meantime, he groans and feels deep distress at the disorder 
which he beholds.* 





¥ To the chief musician of David. 


1. The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God ; they have 
corrupted,” they have done abominable work; there is 
- none that doeth good. : 


Many of the Jews are of opinion that in this psalm there 
is given forth a prediction concerning the future oppression 
of their nation: as if David, by the revelation of the Holy 
Spirit, bewailed the afflicted condition of the Church of God 
under the tyranny of the Gentiles. They therefore refer 
what is here spoken to the dispersed condition in which we see 
them at the present day, as if they were that precious herit- 
age of God which the wild beasts devour. But it is very 
apparent, that in wishing to cover the disgrace of their nation, 
they wrest and apply to the Gentiles, without any just 
ground, what is said concerning the perverse children of 
Abraham.* We cannot certainly find a better qualified 


1 “Combien que cependant il gemisse et se sente angoisse du desordre 
qu'il veoit.”—Fr. 

* Calvin has here given a literal rendering of the Hebrew words, They 
have corrupted. Some suppose that themselves is to be understood, as in 
Ex. xxxii. 7; others, thew ways, as in Gen. vi. 12; but the meaning 
which Calvin has attached to the phrase is, They have corrupted or per- 
verted all good order. 

% * Ce qui est dit de ceux qui a fausses e es serenomment enfans 
d’Abraham vivans autrement qu'il n’appartient.”—-Fr. ‘* What is said of 
those who, according to false marks, call themselves the children of 
Abraham, while living a different life from what they ought.” 





| PSALM XIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 189 


interpreter than the Apostle Paul, and he applies this psalm 
expressly to the people who lived under the law, (Rom. iii. 19.) 
Besides, although we had not the testimony of this Apostle, 
the structure of the psalm very clearly shows that David 
means rather the domestic tyrants and enemies of the faith- 
ful than foreign ones; a point which it is very necessary for 
us to understand. We know that it is a temptation which 
pains us exceedingly, to see wickedness breaking forth and 
prevailing in the midst of the Church, the good and the 
simple unrighteously afflicted, while the wicked cruelly domi- 
neer according to their pleasure. This sad spectacle almost 
- completely disheartens us ; and, therefore, we have much need 
to be fortified from the example which David here sets be- 
fore us: so that, in the midst of the greatest desolations which 
we behold in the Church, we may comfort ourselves with 
this assurance, that God will finally deliver her from them. 
I have no doubt that there is here described the disordered 
and desolate state of Judea which Saul introduced when he 
began to rage openly. Then, as if the remembrance of God 
had been extinguished from the minds of men, all piety had 
vanished, and with respect to integrity or uprightness among 
men, there was just as little of it as of godliness. 

. The fool hath said. As the Hebrew word bs, nabal, 
_ signifies not only a fool, but also a perverse, vile, and con- 
temptible person, it would not have been unsuitable to have 
translated it so in this place; yet I am content to follow 
the more generally received interpretation, which is, that 
all profane persons, who have cast off all fear of God and 
abandoned themselves to iniquity, are convicted of mad- 
ness. David does not bring against his enemies the charge 
of common foolishness, but rather inveighs against the folly 
and insane hardihood of those whom the world accounts 
eminent for their wisdom. We commonly see that those 
who, in the estimation both of themselves and of others, 
highly excel in sagacity and wisdom, employ their cunning 
in laying snares, and exercise the ingenuity of their minds 
in despising and mocking God. It is therefore important 
for us, in the first place, to know, that however much the 
world applaud these crafty and scoffing characters, who allow 


~~ 


190 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIV. 


themselves to indulge to any extent in wickedness, yet the — 
Holy Spirit condemns them as being fools ; for there is no — 
stupidity more brutish than forgetfulness of God. We — 
ought, however, at the same time, carefully to mark the — 
evidence on which the Psalmist comes to the conclusion — 
that they have cast off all sense of religion, and it is this: — 
that they have overthrown all order, so that they no longer 
make any distinction between right and wrong, and have © 
no regard for honesty, nor love of humanity. David, there- 
fore, does not speak of the hidden affection of the heart of — 
the wicked, except in so far as they discover themselves 
by their external actions. The import of his language is, — 
How does it come to pass, that these men indulge them- 
selves in their lusts so boldly and so outrageously, that they — 
pay no regard to righteousness or equity; in short, that 
they madly rush into every kind of wickedness, if it is not 
because they have shaken off all sense of religion, and 
extinguished, as far as they can, all remembrance of God 
from their minds ? When persons retain in their heart 
any sense of religion, they must necessarily have some 
modesty, and be in some measure restrained and prevented 
from entirely disregarding the dictates of their conscience. — 
From this it follows, that when the ungodly allow them- 
selves to follow their own inclinations, so obstinately and 
audaciously as they are here represented as doing, without — 
any sense of shame, it is an evidence that they have cast off 

all fear of God. 

The Psalmist says that they speak in their heart. "They 
may not utter this detestable blasphemy, There is no God, 
with their mouths; but the unbridled licentiousness of their 
life loudly and distinctly declares that in their hearts, which 
are destitute of all godliness, they soothingly sing to them- 
selves thissong. Not that they maintain, by drawn out argu- — 
ments or formal syllogisms, as they term them, that there is _ 
no God, (for to render them so much the more inexcus- 
able, God from time to time causes even the most wicked of 
men to feel secret pangs of conscience, that they may be © 
compelled to acknowledge his majesty and sovereign power;) — 
but whatever right knowledge God instils into them they — 





I 


| PSALM XIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 191 


partly stifle it by their malice against him, and partly cor- 

“rupt it, until religion in them becomes torpid, and at last 
dead. They may not plainly deny the existence of a God, 
but they imagine him to be shut up in heaven, and divested 
of his righteousness and power; and this is just to fashion an 
idol in the room of God. As if the time would never come 

when they will have to appear before him in judgment,' they 
endeavour, in all the transactions and concerns of their life, 
to remove him to the greatest distance, and to efface from 
their minds all apprehension of his majesty.2, And when God 
is dragged from his throne, and divested of his character as 
judge, impiety has come to its utmost height; and, therefore, 
we must conclude that David has most certainly spoken ac- 
cording to truth, in declaring that those who give themselves 
liberty to commit all manner of wickedness, in the flattering 
hope of escaping with impunity, deny in their heart that 
there is a God. As the fifty-third psalm, with the excep- 
tion of a few words which are altered in it, is just a repeti- 
tion of this psalm, I will show in the proper places, as we 
proceed, the difference which there is between the two 
psalms. David here complains that they have done abomin- 
able work; but for the word work, the term there employed 

_is iniquity. It should be observed that David does not 
speak of one work or of two; but as he had said, that they 
have perverted or corrupted all lawful order, so now he adds, 
that they have so polluted their whole life, as to make it 
abominable, and the proof of this which he adduces is, that 
they have no regard to uprightness in their dealings with one 
another, but have forgotten all humanity, and all beneficence 
towards their fellow-creatures. 


1 Some critics observe, that as mm, Yehovah, the name which denotes 
the infinite, self-existent essence of God, is not the word here employed, 
but ox, a name which they regard as referring to God as judge and gover- 
nor of the world, the meaning of tlie first verse is not that the fool denies 
the existence of God, but only his providence and government of the world ; 
that he persuades himself God has no concern about the actions of men, 
and that there will be no judgment to come ; and, therefore, goes on in sin, 
in the hope of escaping with impunity.—See Poole’s Synopsis Criticorum, 
The Targum paraphrases the words, ‘‘ There is no God,” thus, ** There is 
no ovmbx, government of God in the earth.” 

2 “ Et abolir de leurs esprits toute apprehension de sa majeste.”—Fr, 


192 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIV. — 


2. Jehovah looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to 


see whether there were any that did understand, and seek 
after God, 
3. Every one of them has gone aside, they have altogether become 






putrid, [or rotten ;] there is none that doeth good, not even — 


one, 


2. Jehovah looked down from heaven. God himself is here 
introduced as speaking on the subject of human depravity, 
and this renders the discourse of David more emphatic than 
if he had pronounced the sentence in his own person. When 
God is exhibited to us as sitting on his throne to take cog- 
nisance of the conduct of men, unless we are stupified in 
an extraordinary degree, his majesty must strike us with 
terror. The effect of the habit of sinning is, that men grow 
hardened in their sins, and discern nothing, as if they were 
enveloped in thick darkness. David, therefore, to teach them 
that they gain nothing by flattering and deceiving themselves 
as they do, when wickedness reigns in the world with impu- 
nity, testifies that God looks down from heaven, and casts 
his eyes on all sides, for the purpose of knowing what is done 
among men. God, it is true, has no need to make inquisition 
or search ; but when he compares himself to an earthly judge, 
it is in adaptation to our limited eapacity, and to enable us 


gradually to form some apprehension of his secret providence, — 


which our reason cannot all at once comprehend. Would to 
God that this manner of speaking had the effect of teaching 
us to summon ourselves before his tribunal; and that, while 
the world are flattering themselves, and the reprobate are 
trying to bury their sins in forgetfulness by their want of 
thought, hypocrisy, or shamelessness, and are blinded in their 
obstinacy as if they were intoxicated, we might be led to 
shake off all indifference and stupidity by reflecting on this 
truth, that God, notwithstanding, looks down from his high 
throne in heaven, and beholds what is going on here below! 


To see if there were any that did understand. As the whole 


economy of a good and righteous life depends upon our being 
governed and directed by the light of understanding, Dayid 
has justly taught us in the beginning of the psalm, that folly 
is the root of all wickedness. And in this clause he also 


PSALM XIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 193 


| . 

very justly declares, that the commencement of integrity 
and uprightness of life consists in an enlightened and 
sound mind. But as the greater part misapply their intel- 
lectual powers to deceitful purposes, David immediately after 
defines, in one word, what true understanding is, namely, 
that it consists in seeking after God ; by which he means, that 
‘unless men devote themselves wholly to God, their life can- 
not be well ordered. Some understand the word >'3¥p, 
mashkil, which we translated, that did understand, in too 
restricted a sense; whereas David declares that the repro- 
bate are utterly destitute of all reason and judgment. 

Eivery one of them has gone aside. Some translate the 
word “jp, sar, which is here used, éo stink, as if the reading 
were, Every one of them emits an offensive odour, that it may 
correspond in meaning with the verb in the next clause, 
which in Hebrew signifies to become putrid or rotten. But 
there is no necessity for explaining the two words in the 
same way, as if the same thing were repeated twice. The 
interpretation is more appropriate, which supposes that men 
are here condemned as guilty of a detestable revolt, inas- 
much as they are estranged from God, or have departed far 
from him ; and that afterwards there is pointed out the dis- 
gusting corruption or putrescence of their whole life, as if 
nothing could proceed from apostates but what smells rank of 
rottenness and infection. The Hebrew word p, sar, is almost 
universally taken in this sense. In the 53d Psalm, the word 
5D, sag, is used, which signifies the same thing. In short, 
Dayid declares that all men are so carried away by their 
capricious lusts, that nothing is to be found either of purity 
or integrity in their whole life. This, therefore, is defection so 


' Hammond admits that the word +», sar, means to go aside, or to decline, 
and that itis commonly applied to a way or path, diticing from the right 
way, or going in a wrong way. But he thi that the idea here is differ- 
ent, that it is taken from wine when it grows dead or sour, just as the 
word is used in this sense in Hosea iv. 18, oxso 56, sar sobim, ** Their drink 
is gone aside, or grown sour.” He considers this view corroborated from 
the clause which immediately follows, wbx, ne-elachu, they are become putrid, 
which is derived from nbx, alach, to be rotten or putrified, referring properly 
to flesh which has become putrid. ‘ Thus,” says he, ‘ the proportion 
is well kept between drink and meat, the one growing dead or sour, as 
the other putrifies and stinks, and then is good for nothing, but is thrown 
away. 
VOL. I. N 


194 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIV. 


complete, that it extinguishes all godliness. Besides, David 
here not only censures a portion of the people, but pro- 
nounces them all to be equally involved in the same condem- 
nation, This was, indeed, a prodigy well fitted to excite 
abhorrence, that all the children of Abraham, whom God 
had chosen to be his peculiar people, were so corrupt from 
the least to the greatest. 

But it.might be asked, how David makes no exception, 
how he declares that not a righteous person remains, not 
even one, when, nevertheless, he informs us, a little after, 
that the poor and afflicted put their trust in God? Again, 
it might be asked, if all were wicked, who was that Israel 
whose future redemption he celebrates in the end of the 
psalm? Nay, as he himself was one of the body of that 
people, why does he not at least except himself? I answer: 
It is against the carnal and degenerate body of the Israel- 
itish nation that he here inveighs, and the small number 
constituting the seed which God had set apart for himself 
is not included among them. This is the reason why 
Paul, in his Epistle to the Romans, chap. iii, 10, extends 
this sentence to all mankind. David, it is true, deplores the 
disordered and desolate state of matters under the reign of 
Saul. At the same time, however, he doubtless makes a 
comparison between the children of God and all who have 
not been regenerated by the Spirit, but are carried away 
according to the inclinations of their flesh. Some give a 
different explanation, maintaining that Paul, by quoting the 
testimony of David, did not understand him-as meaning that 
men are naturally depraved and corrupt; and that the truth 
which David intended to teach is, that the rulers and the more 
distinguished of the people were wicked, and that, therefore, 
it was not surprising to behold unrighteousness and wicked- 
ness prevailing so generally in the world. This answer is far 
from being satisfactory. The subject which Paul there 
reasons upon is not, what is the character of the preater part 
of men, but what is the character of all who are led and 

1 David speaks of all mankind, with the exception of the ‘ people of 


God,” and “the generation of the righteous,” spoken of in verses 4, 5, 
who are opposed to the rest of the human race. 


PSALM XIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 195 


governed by their own corrupt nature. It is, therefore, to 
be observed, that when David places himself and the small 
remnant of the godly on one side, and puts on the other 
the body of the people, in general, this implies that there is 
a manifest difference between the children of God who are 
created anew by his Spirit, and all the posterity of Adam, in 
whom corruption and depravity exercise dominion. Whence 
it follows, that all of us, when we are born, bring with us 
from our mother’s womb this folly and filthiness manifested 
in the whole life, which David here describes, and that we 
continue such until God make us new creatures by his mys- 
terious grace. 


4. Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge, who eat up my 
people as they eat bread? they call not upon the Lord. 


This question is added to give a more amplified illustra- 
tion of the preceding doctrine. The prophet had said that 
God observed from heaven the doings of men, and had found 
all of them gone out of the way; and now he introduces him 
exclaiming with astonishment, What madness is this, that 
they who ought to cherish my people, and assiduously per- 
form to them every kind office, are oppressing and falling 
upon them like wild beasts, without any feeling of humanity ? 
He attributes this manner of speaking to God, not because 
any thing can happen which is strange or unexpected to him, 
but im order the more forcibly to express his indignation. 
‘The Prophet Isaiah, in like manner, (chap. lix. 16,) when 
treating of almost the same subject, says, “ And God saw 
that there was no man, and wondered that there was no 
intercessor.” God, it is true, does not actually experience in 
himself such affections, but he represents himself as invested 


_ 1 Calvin here reads Dominus, although the word in the Hebrew text is 
mm, Yehovah, which he almost uniformly retains, In the Septuagint, mm 
is always rendered by ¢ Kugzos, the Lord, which is equivalent ig Sats 
and is expressive of dominion or property,—a word which implies a differ- 
ent idea from the name Jehovah, which denotes independent and eter- 
nal existence. ‘The translators of the Septuagint 6 Kuesog for 0, 
in accommodation to the scruples of the Jews, who directed *nx to be read 
wherever mm occurs. 


196 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIV. 


with them, that we may entertain the greatest horror and 
dread on account of our sins, when he declares them to 
be of so monstrous a character, that he is as it were thrown 
into agitation and disorder by them. And were we not 
harder than the stones, our horror at the wickedness which 
prevails in the world would make the hair of our head to 
stand on end,' seeing God exhibits to us in his own person 
such a testimony of the detestation with which he regards it. 
Moreover, this verse confirms what I have said in the com- 
mencement, that David does not speak in this psalm of foreign 
tyrants, or the avowed enemies of the church, but of the 
rulers and princes of his people, who were furnished with 
power and honour. ‘This description would not apply to 
men who were altogether strangers to the revealed will of 
God; for it would be nothing wonderful to see those who 
do not possess the moral law, the rule of life, devoting them- 
selves to the work of violence and oppression. But the hein- 
ousness of the proceedings condemned is not a little aggra- 
vated from this circumstance, that it is the shepherds them- 
selves, whose office it is to feed and to take care of the flock,? 
who cruelly devour it, and who spare not even the people and 
heritage of God. There is a similar complaint in Micah iii. 
1-3, “ And I said, Hear, I pray you, O heads of Jacob, and 
ye princes of the house of Israel: Is it not for you to know 
judgment ? Who hate the good and love the evil; who pluck 
off their skin from off them; and their flesh from off their 
bones ; who also eat the flesh of my people, and flay their skin 
from off them,” &c. If those who profess to know and to serve 
God were to exercise such cruelty towards the Babylonians or 
Egyptians, it would be a piece of injustice which could admit 
of no excuse ; but when they glut themselves with the blood 
and flesh of the saints, as they devour bread, this is such 
monstrous iniquity, that it may well strike both angels and 
men with astonishment. Had such persons a particle of 
sound understanding remaining in them, it would restrain 
them from conduct so fearfully infatuated. They must, there- 


1 * T) faut que l’horreur des meschancetez qui regnent au monde nous 
face dresser les cheveux en la teste.” —Fr. 


3 * Desquels l’office est de paistre et governer le troupeau.”—Fr, 





PSALM XIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 197 


fore, be completely blinded by the devil, and utterly bereft of 
reason and understanding, seeing they knowingly and will- 
ingly flay and devour the people of God with such inhumanity. 
This passage teaches us how displeasing to God, and how 
abominable is the cruelty which is exercised against the god- 
ly, by those who pretend to be their shepherds. In the end 
of the verse, where he says that they call not upon the Lord, he 
again points out the source and cause of this unbridled wick- 
edness, namely, that such persons have no reverence for God. 
Religion is the best mistress for teaching us mutually to 
maintain equity and uprightness towards each other; and 
where a concern for religion is extinguished, then all regard 
for justice perishes along with it. With respect to the phrase, 
calling upon God, as it constitutes the principal exercise of 
godliness, it includes by synecdoche, (a figure of rhetoric, 
by which a part is put for the whole,) not only here, but in 
many other passages of Scripture, the whole of the seryice of 


5. There did they tremble with fear,’ for God is in [or with, or 
for’) the generation of the righteous. 
6. Ye deride the counsel of the poor, because Jehovah is his hope. 


5. There did they tremble with fear, The prophet now 
encourages himself and all the faithful with the best of all 
consolations, namely, that God [will not forsake his people 
even to the end, but will at length show himself to be their 
defender. Some explain the adverb of place there, as mean- 
ing that God will take vengeance on the wicked in the 


1 It is the general opinion that this psalm was composed during the 
alarm and ere aioe occasioned by Absalom’s rebellion, ar that 
this is a ction of the failure of the conspiracy. But Calmet and 
Mudge the psalm to the captivity in Babylon, and the latter sup- 

that in this and the preceding verse there is an allusion to the great 
terror into which the en were thrown, in the midst of their impious 
carousals ; which some refer to the scene which took place at Belshazzar’s 
feast, when the hand was seen writing on the wall, There is, however, 
great uncertainty’as to the occasions on which most of the psalms were 
composed ; and those who have examined the different opinions of inter- 
preters on this subject must be convinced of the difficulty of arriving at any 
thing like certainty in re. to it. 

2 * Avec ou pour.”—Fr. marg. 


198 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIV. 


presence of his saints, because they exercised their tyranny 
upon them. But I rather think that by this word there is 
expressed the certainty of their punishment,! as if the 
Psalmist pointed to it with the finger? It may also inti- 
mate what we may gather from Psalm liii., that the judg- 
ment of God would come upon them suddenly, and when 
they were not thinking about it ; for it is there added, where 
no fear is, or, where no fear was.* Expositors, 1 am aware, 
differ in their interpretation of these words. Some supply 
the word equal or like, and read, There is no fear equal to it. 
Others refer them to those secret alarms with which the un- 
godly are tormented, even when there may be no ground for 
apprehension. God threatens the transgressors of his law 
with such mental torment that they “ shall flee when none 
pursueth them,” (Ley. xxvi. 17, and Prov. xxviii. 1,) and that 
“the sound of a shaking leaf shall chase them,” (Ley. xxvi. 
363) just as we see that they are themselves their own tor- 
mentors, and are agitated with mental trouble even when 
there is no external cause to create it. But I think the 
meaning of the prophet is different, namely, that when their 
affairs are in a state of the greatest tranquillity and prosperity, 
God will suddenly launch against them the bolts of his ven- 
geance. “For when they shall say, Peace and safety, then 
sudden destruction cometh upon them,” (1 Thess. vy. 3.) The 
prophet, therefore, encourages and supports the faithful with 
this prospect, that the ungodly, when they think themselves 
free from all danger, and are securely celebrating their own 
triumphs, shall be overwhelmed with sudden destruction. 
The reason of this is added in the last clause of the verse, 


1 Though punishment had not as yet been actually inflicted on the 
oppressors of the a of God, of whom the Psalmist had spoken in the 
sie verse, he speaks of their punishment as if it had taken place. 

e reason of this manner of » tert, concerning things future in prophetic 
poetry, Horsley explains to be this, ‘‘ That a scene typical of is 
presented to the prophet’s imagination, and what he sees in that scene he 

of as done.” 

2 “ The particle ov is used demonstratively, in reference to the scene 
which lies before the inspired poet’s fancy. there !”"—Horsley. 

3 In the Septuagint version, to the words, there were they in great fear, 
there is added the words ov ovx gv 6 QéCog, where there was no fear, the 
transcribers, perhaps, transferring it by memory from Psalm liii. 6, or the 
translators adding the words by way of paraphrase. 





ee 








PSALM XIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 199 


namely, because God is determined to defend the right- 
eous, and to take in hand their cause: For God is in the 
generation of the righteous, Now, in order to preserve them 
safe, he must necessarily thunder in his wrath from heaven 
against their enemies, who unjustly oppress and waste them 
by violence and extortion. There is, however, some ambi- 
guity in the word 4%, dor, which we have translated gene- 
ration. As this noun in Hebrew sometimes signifies an age, 
or, the course of human life, the sentence might be explained 
as follows: Although God for a time may seem to take no 
notice of the wrongs inflicted upon his servants by the 
wicked, yet he is ever present with them, and exercises his 
grace towards them during their whole life. But it seems 
to me a more simple and natural exposition to interpret the 
clause thus: That God is on the side of the righteous, and 
takes their part, as we say,’ so that 4)", dor, will have the 
same signification here which the word natio, [nation,] some- 
times has among the Latins. 

In Psalm liii. 5, the Psalmist adds a sentence which does 
not occur in this psalm, For God hath scattered the bones of 
him that besiegeth thee, thou shalt put them to shame ; because 
God hath rejected them. By these words the prophet ex- 
plains more clearly how God protects the righteous, that it 
is by delivering them from the jaws of death, just as if one 
were to put to flight those who had laid siege to a town, and 
were to set at liberty its inhabitants, who before were in 
great extremity and quite shut up. Whence it follows, that 
we must patiently bear oppression, if we desire to be pro- 
tected and preserved by the hand of God, at the time of our 
greatest danger. The expression, bones, is used metaphorically 
for strength or power. The prophet particularly speaks of their 
power; for if the wicked were not possessed of riches, am- 
munition, and troops, which render them formidable, it would 
not appear, with sufficient evidence, that it is the hand of 
God which at length crushes them. The Psalmist next 


1 « Qui les foullent injustement et usent de violence et extorsion.”—. 

2 “ Et tient leur parte, comme on dit.” —Fr. 

3 “Ne plus ne moins que si quelqu’un mettoit en fuite ceux qui auroyent 
dressé le siege devant une ville, et mettoit en liberté les habitans d’icelle 

qui estoyent auparavant en grande extremité et bien enserrez.”—Fr. 


200 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIV, 


exhorts the faithful to.a holy boasting, and bids them rest 
assured that an ignominious destruction hangs over the heads 
of the wicked. The reason of this is, because God hath re- 
Jected them; and if he is opposed to them, all things must 
ultimately go ill with them. As DN, mads, which we have 
translated to reject, sometimes signifies to despise, some render 
it thus,—Because God hath despised them ; but this, I 
think, does not suit the passage. It would be more ap- 
propriate to read,—He hath rendered them contemptible, or, 
subjected them to disgrace and ignominy. Whence it follows, 
that they only draw down upon themselves dishonour and 
infamy while they strive to elevate themselves, as it were, in 
despite of God. 


6. Ye deride the counsel of the poor. He inveighs against 
those giants who mock at the faithful for their simplicity, 
in calmly expecting, in their distresses, that God will show 
himself to be their deliverer. And, certainly, nothing seems 
more irrational to the flesh than to betake ourselves to God 
when yet he does not relieve us from our calamities; and the 
reason is, because the flesh judges of God only according to 
what it presently beholds of his grace. Whenever, there- 
fore, unbelievers see the children of God overwhelmed with 
calamities, they reproach them for their groundless confi- 
dence, as it appears to them to be, and with sarcastic jeers 
laugh at the assured hope with which they rely upon God, from 
whom, notwithstanding, they receive no sensible aid. David, 
therefore, defies and derides this insolence of the wicked, and 
threatens that their mockery of the poor and the wretched, 
and their charging them with folly in depending upon the 
protection of God, and not sinking under their calamities, will 
be the cause of their destruction. At the same time, he teaches 
them that there is no resolution to which we can come which 
is better advised than the resolution to depend upon God, 
and that to repose on his salvation, and on the assistance which 
he hath promised us, even although we may be surrounded 
with calamities, is the highest wisdom. 





i . 
“PSALM XIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 201 


7. Who shall give salvation [or deliverance] to Israel out of 
Sion? When Jehovah shall have brought back the capti- 
vity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be 
glad. 


David, after having laid down the doctrine of consolation, 
again returns to prayers and groanings, By this he teaches 
us, that although God may leave us for a long time to lan- 
guish, yet we ought not to weary, or lose courage, but should 
always glory in him; and, again, that while our troubles 
continue, the most effectual solace we can have is often to 
return to the exercise of prayer. When he asks the ques- 
tion, Who shall give salvation? this does not imply, that 
he was looking either to the right hand or to the left, or that 
he turned away his eyes from God in search of another 
deliverer ; he intends only to express the ardour of his desire, 
as if he had said, When will the time at length come when 
God will display his salvation, and make it fully manifest ? 
By the word Sion, which he adds, he testifies that his hope is 
fixed on God; for Sion was the holy place from which God 
had promised to hear the prayers of his servants; and it 
was the dwelling-place of the ark of the covenant, which was 

~ an external pledge and symbol of the presence of God. He 
does not, therefore, doubt who would be the author of his 
salvation; but he asks, with a sorrowful heart, when at 
length that salvation will come forth which is to be expected 
from no other source than from God alone. The question 
may, however, be put, if this prayer refers to the time of 
Saul, how can Sion, with propriety, be named as being already 
the sanctuary of God? I will not deny that the Psalmist, by 
the spirit of prophecy, may have predicted what had not yet 
actually taken place; but I think it highly probable, that 
this psalm was not composed until the ark of the covenant 
had been placed on mount Sion. David, as we know, employed 
his leisure hours in committing to writing, for the benefit 
of posterity, events which had happened long before. Besides, 
by expressing his desire for the deliverance of Israel, we 
are taught that he was chiefly anxious about the welfare 
of the whole body of the Church, and that his thoughts were 


202 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIV. 


more occupied about this than about himself individually. 
This is worthy of being the more carefully marked when 
we consider, that, while our attention is engrossed with our 
own particular sorrows, we are in danger of almost entirely 
neglecting the welfare of our brethren. And yet the parti- 
cular afflictions with which God visits each of us are intended 
to admonish us to direct our attention and care to the whole 
body of the Church, and to think of its necessities, just as 
we see David here including Israel with himself. 

When the Lord shall have brought back the captivity of his 
people. In these words, David concludes, that God will not 
suffer the faithful to languish under continual sorrow, accord- 
ing as it is said in another psalm, (cxxyi. 5,) “They that 
sow in tears shall reap in joy.” He doubtless aims at con- 
firming and encouraging himself and all the godly to hope 
for the promised deliverance. He therefore says, in the 
first place, that although God may delay, or at least may 
not make so much haste as we would wish, he will, neyer- 
theless, show himself to be the defender of his people, by 
redeeming them from captivity. And, in the next place, he 
assuages their sorrow, by setting forth that the issue of it 
will be joyful, seeing it will at length be turned into glad- 
ness. The captivity, of which he makes mention, is not the 
Babylonish, or the dispersion of his people among the heathen 
nations; it rather refers to an oppression at home, when the 
wicked exercise dominion like tyrants in the Church. We 
are, therefore, taught by these words, that when such furious 
enemies waste and destroy the flock of God, or proudly tread 
#t under foot, we ought to have recourse to God, whose 
peculiar office it is to gather together his Israel from all 
places whither they have been dispersed. And the term 
captivity, which he employs, implies, that when the wicked 
overthrow at their pleasure all good and lawful order in the 
midst of the Church, it is converted into a Babylon or Egypt. 
Farther, although David defers the joy of the holy people to 
the time of their deliverance, yet the consolatory prospect of 
this should serve not only to moderate our grief, but also to 
mix and season it with joy. 











\ 


PSALM XV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 203 
: a * 
Fs 


PSALM XV. 


This psalm teaches us upon what condition God made choice of the 
Jews to be his people, and placed his sanctuary in the midst of them. 
This condition was, that they should show themselves to be a peculiar 
and holy people, by leading a just and upright life. 


q A Song of David. 


1. O Jehovah, who shall dwell in thy tabernacle ? Who shall rest 
in the mountain of thy holiness ? 

2. He who walketh in integrity, and doeth righteousness, and 
who speaketh truth in his heart. 


1. O Jehovah, who shall dwell in thy tabernacle ? As nothing 
is more common in the world than falsely to assume the name 
of God, or to pretend to be his people, and as a great part 
of men allow themselves to do this without any apprehension 
of the danger it involves, David, without stopping to speak to 

~ men, addresses himself to God, which he considers the better 
course; and he intimates, that if men assume the title of 
the people of God, without being so in deed and in truth, 
they gain nothing by their self-delusion, for God continues 
always like himself, and as he is faithful himself, so will he have 
us to keep faith with him in return. No doubt, he adopted 
Abraham freely, but, at the same time, he stipulated with 
him that he should live a holy and an upright life, and this 
is the general rule of the covenant which God has, from the 
beginning, made with his Church. The sum is, that hypo- 
erites, who occupy a place inthe temple of God, in vain pre- 
tend to be his people, for he acknowledges none as such 
but those who follow after justice and uprightness during 
the whole course of their life. David saw the temple crowd- 
ed with a great multitude of men who all made a profession 
of the same religion, and presented themselves before God as 
to the outward ceremony ; and, therefore, assuming the person 


204 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XY. 


of one wondering at the spectacle, he directs his discourse 
to God, who, in such a confusion and medley of characters, 
could easily distinguish his own people from strangers. 
There is a threefold use of this doctrine. In the first 
place, If we really wish to be reckoned among the number 
of the children of God, the Holy Ghost teaches us, that we 
must show ourselves to be such by a holy and an upright 
life; for it is not enough to serve God by outward cere- 
monies, unless we also live uprightly, and without doing 
wrong to our neighbours. In the second place, As we too 
often see the Church of God defaced by much impurity, to 
prevent us from stumbling at what appears so offensive, a 
distinction is made between those who are permanent citizens 
of the Church, and strangers who are mingled among them 
only for a time. This is undoubtedly a warning highly 
necessary, in order that when the temple of God happens to 
be tainted by many impurities, we may not contract such 
disgust and chagrin as will make us withdraw from it. By 
impurities I understand the vices of a corrupt and polluted 
life. Provided religion continue pure as to doctrine and 
worship, we must not be so much stumbled at the faults and 
sins which men commit, as on that account to rend the unity 
of the Church. Yet the experience of all ages teaches us 
how dangerous a temptation it is when we behold the Church 
of God, which ought to be free from all polluting stains, and 
to shine in uncorrupted purity, cherishing in her bosom many 
ungodly hypocrites, or wicked persons. From this the 
-Catharists, Novatians, and Donatists, took occasion in former 
times to separate themselves from the fellowship of the godly. 
The Anabaptists, at the present day, renew the same schisms, 
because it does not seem to them that a church in which vices 
are tolerated can be a true church. But Christ, in Matth. 
xxv. 82, justly claims it as his own peculiar office to separate 
the sheep from the goats; and thereby admonishes us, that 
we must bear with the evils which it is not in our power to 
correct, until all things become ripe, and the proper season of 
purging the Church arrive. At the same time, the faithful 
are here enjoined, each in his own sphere, to use their endea- 
yours that the Church of God may be purified from the cor- 








PSALM XV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 205 


ruptions which still exist within her. And this is the third 
use which we should make of this doctrine. God’s sacred 
barn-floor will not be perfectly cleansed before the last day, 
when Christ at his coming will cast out the chaff; but he 
has already begun to do this by the doctrine of his gospel, 
which on this account he terms a fan. We must, therefore, 
by no means be indifferent about this matter; on the con- 
trary, we ought rather to exert ourselves in good earnest, 
that all who profess themselves Christians may lead a holy 
and an unspotted life. But above all, what God here declares 
with respect to all the unrighteous should be deeply imprint- 
ed on our memory; namely, that he prohibits them from 
coming to his sanctuary, and condemns their impious pre- 
sumption, in irreverently thrusting themselves into the 
society of the godly. David makes mention of the tabernacle, 
because the temple was not yet built. The meaning of his 
discourse, to express it in a few words, is this, that those 
only have access to God who are his genuine servants, and 
who live a holy life. 


2. He that walketh in integrity. Here we should mark, 
that in the words there is an implied contrast between the 
~ yain boasting of those who are only the people of God in 
name, or who make only a bare profession of being so, which 
consists in outward observances, and this indubitable and 
genuine evidence of true godliness which David commends. 
But it might be asked, As the service of God takes prece- 
dence of the duties of charity towards our neighbours, why 
is there no mention here made of faith and prayer; for, cer- 
tainly, these are the marks by which the genuine children of 
God ought to have been distinguished from hypocrites? The 
answer is easy: David does not intend to exclude faith and 
prayer, and other spiritual sacrifices ; but as hypocrites, in 
order to promote their own interests, are not sparing in their 
attention to a multiplicity of external religious observances, 
while their ungodliness, notwithstanding, is manifested out- 
wardly in the life, seeing they are full of pride, cruelty, vio- 
lence, and are given to deceitfulness and extortion,—the 
Psalmist, for the purpose of discovering and drawing forth 


206 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XV. 


into the light all who are of such a character, takes the marks 
and evidences of true and sincere faith from the second table 
of the law. According to the care which every man takes 
to practise righteousness and equity towards his neighbours, 
so does he actually show that he fears God.. David, then, 
is not here to be understood as resting satisfied with poli- 
tical or social justice, as if it were enough to render to our 
fellow-men what is their own, while we may lawfully 
defraud God of his right; but he describes the approved ser- 
vants of God, as distinguished and known by the fruits of 
righteousness which they produce. In the first place, he 
requires sincerity ; in other words, that men should conduct 
themselves in all their affairs with singleness of heart, and 
without sinful craft or cunning. Secondly, he requires 
justice; that is to say, that they should study to do good to 
their neighbours, hurt nobody, and abstain from all wrong. 
Thirdly, he requires éruth in their speech, so that they may 
speak nothing falsely or deceitfully. To speak in the heart is 
a strong figurative expression, but it expresses more forcibly 
David’s meaning than if he had said from the heart. It 
denotes such agreement and harmony between the heart and 
tongue, as that the speech is, as it were; a vivid representa- 
tion of the hidden affection or feeling within. 


3. He that slandereth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his 
companion, nor raiseth up a calumnious report against his 
neighbour. 

David, after having briefly set forth the virtues with which 
all who desire to have a place in the Church ought to be 
endued, now enumerates certain vices from which they ought 
to be free. In the first place, he tells them that they must 
not be slanderers or detractors; secondly, that they must 
restrain themselves from doing any thing mischievous and 
injurious to their neighbours; and, thirdly, that they must 
not aid in giving currency to calumnies and false reports. 
Other vices, from which the righteous are free, we shall meet 
with as we proceed. David, then, sets down calumny 
and detraction as the first point of injustice by which our 


———— ee 


PSALM XV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 207 


neighbours are injured. If a good name is a treasure, more 
precious than all the riches of the world, (Prov. xxii. 1,) no 
- greater injury can be inflicted upon men than to wound their 
reputation. It is not, however, every injurious word which 
is here condemned; but the disease and lust of detraction, 
which stirs up malicious persons to spread abroad calumnies. 
At the same time, it cannot be doubted that the design of 
the Holy Spirit is to condemn all false and wicked accusa- 
tions. In the clause which immediately follows, the doctrine 
that the children of God ought to be far removed from all 
injustice, is stated more generally: Nor doeth evil to his 
companion. By the words companion and neighbour, the 
Psalmist means not only those with whom we enjoy familiar 
intercourse, and live on terms of intimate friendship, but 
all men, to whom we are bound by the ties of humanity 
and a common nature. He employs these terms to show 
more clearly the odiousness of what he condemns, and 
that the saints may have the greater abhorrence of all 
wrong dealing, since every man who hurts his neighbour 
violates the fundamental law of human society. With respect 
to the meaning of the last clause, interpreters are not agreed. 
Some take the phrase, to raise up a calumnious report, for 
to invent, because malicious persons raise up calumnies from 
nothing; and thus it would be a repetition of the state- 
ment contained in the first clause of the verse, namely, that 
good men should not allow themselves to indulge in de- 
traction. But I think there is also here rebuked the vice of 
undue credulity, which, when any evil reports are spread 
against our neighbours, leads us either eagerly to listen to 
them, or at least to receive them without sufficient reason ; 
whereas we ought rather to use all means to suppress and 
trample them under foot.1_ When any one is the bearer 
of invented falsehoods, those who reject them leave them, 
as it were, to fall to the ground; while, on the contrary, 
those who propagate and publish them from one person to 
another are, by an expressive form of speech, said to raise 
them up. 


1 “ Et mettre sous le pied.”——Jr, 





208 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XV. — 


4, In his eyes the offcast [or reprobate ] is despised ; but he 
honoureth them that fear the Lord ; when he hath sworn 
to his own hurt, he changeth not. 


The first part of this verse is explained in different ways. 
Some draw from it this meaning, that the true servants of 
God are contemptible and worthless in their own estima- 
tion. If we adopt this interpretation, the copula and, which 
David does not express, must be supplied, making the read- 
ing thus, He is vile and despised in his own eyes. But besides 
the consideration, that, if this had been the sense, the words 
would probably have been joined together by the copula 
and, I have another reason which leads me to think that 
David had a different meaning. He compares together two — 
opposite things, namely, to despise perverse and worthless 
characters, and to honour the righteous and those who fear 
God. In order that these two clauses may correspond with 
each other, the only sense in which I can understand what is 
here said about being despised is this, that the children of 
God despise the ungodly, and form that low and con- 
temptuous estimate of them which their character deserves. 
The godly, it is true, although living a praiseworthy and 
virtuous life, are not inflated with presumption, but, on the 
contrary, are rather dissatisfied with themselves, because 
they feel how far short they are as yet of the perfection which 
is required. When, however, I consider what the scope of 
the passage demands, I do not think that we are here to 
view the Psalmist as commending humility or modesty, but 
rather a free and upright judgment of human character, by 
which the wicked, on the one hand, are not spared, while 
virtue, on the other, receives the honour which belongs to it ; 
for flattery, which nourishes vices by covering them, is an 
evil not less pernicious than it is common. I indeed admit, 
that if the wicked are in authority, we ought not to carry 
our contempt of them the length of refusing to obey them in 
so far as a regard to our duty will permit; but, at the same 
time, we must beware of flattery and of accommodating our- 
selves to them, which would be to involve us in the same 


1‘ Meschant, ou vilein et abominable.”— Note, F'r. marg. “‘ The wicked, 
or the vile and abominable.” . 


PSALM XV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 209 


condemnation with them. He who not only seems to regard 
their wicked actions with indifference, but also honours 
them, shows that he approves of them as much as it is in his 
power. Paul therefore teaches us, (Eph. v. 11,) that it is a 
species of fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness 
when we do not reprove them. It is certainly a very per- 
verse way of acting, when persons, for the sake of obtaining 
the fayour of men, will indirectly mock God; and all are 
chargeable with doing this who make it their business to 
please the wicked. David, however, has a respect, not so 
much to persons as to wicked works. The man who sees the 
wicked honoured, and by the applause of the world rendered 
more obstinate in their wickedness, and who willingly gives 
his consent or approbation to this, does he not, by so doing, 
exalt vice to authority, and invest it with sovereign power ? 
“ But woe,” says the prophet Isaiah, (ch. v. 20,) “ unto them 
that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, 
and light for darkness.” 

Nor ought it to be regarded as a rude or violent manner 
of speaking, when David calls base and wicked persons repro- 
bates, although they may be placed in an exalted and honour- 
able station. If (as Cicero affirms, in his book entitled The 
Responses of the Aruspices) the inspectors of the entrails 
of the sacrifices, and other heathen soothsayers, applied to 
worthless and abandoned characters the term rejected, although 
they excelled in dignity and riches, why should not a prophet 
of God be permitted to apply the name of degraded outcasts 
to all who are rejected by God? The meaning of the Psalmist, 
to express it in a few words, is, that the children of God 
freely judge of every man’s doings, and that for the purpose 
of obtaining the favour of men, they will not stoop to vile 
flattery, and thereby encourage the wicked in their wicked- 
ness. 

What follows immediately after, namely, to honour the 
righteous and those who fear God, is no mean virtue. As 
they are often, as it were, the filth and the offscouring of all 
things in the estimation of the world, so it frequently hap- 
pens that those who show them fayour and sympathy, excite 
against themselves every where the hatred of the world. 

VOL, I. oO 


210 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XY. 


The greater part of mankind, therefore, refuse the friendship 
of good men, and leave them to be despised, which cannot 
be done without grievous and heinous injury to God. Let 
us learn then not to value men by their estate or their money, 
or their transitory honours, but to hold in estimation godli- 
ness, or the fear of God. And certainly no man will ever 
truly apply his mind to the study of godliness who does 
not, at the same time, reverence the servants of God; as, on 
the other hand, the love we bear to them incites us to imitate 
them in sanctity of life. 

When he hath sworn to his own hurt. The translation of the 
LXX. would agree very well with the scope of the passage, 
were it not that the points which are under the words in 
the Hebrew text will not bear such a sense. It is, indeed, 
no proof of the inaccuracy of their rendering, that it does not 
agree with the points; for, although the Jews have always 
used the points in reading, it is probable that they did not 
always express them in writing. I, however, prefer following 
the commonly received reading. And the meaning is, that the 
faithful will rather submit to suffer loss than break their word. 
When a man keeps his promises, in as far as he sees it to 
be for his own advantage, there is in this no argument to 
prove his uprightness and faithfulness. But when men make 
a promise to each other, there is nothing more common than 
from some slight loss which the performance of it would ocea- 
sion, to endeavour to find a pretext for breaking their engage- 
ments. Every one considers with himself what is for his 
own advantage, and if it puts him to-inconvenience or 
trouble to stand to his promises, he is ingenious enough to 
imagine that he will incur a far greater loss than there is any 

1“ The LXX., instead of yan, [Jehara,] to hurt, seem to have read yr, 
[leharea,] to his fellow, for they render it, 7@ *Anolov abrov, to his neigh- 
bour, and so the Syriac, and Latin, and Arabic, and Athiopic.”—Ham- 
mond. This rendering agrees very well with the scope of the psalm, 
which relates to our dealing justly with our fellow-men ; and it ts 
the good man as pete Ye! performing the promissory cathe sie he 
makes to his neighbour. But the ordinary reading, he sweareth to his own 
hurt, and changeth not, sets forth the moral integrity of the good man in a 
still more striking light, by describing him as egy ey his oath in the 
face of the greesest temptations to break it, when the performance of it 


may prove detrimental to his own interests; and this is no mean trial of a 
man’s virtue. 


PSALM XV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 211 


reason to apprehend. It seems, indeed, a fair excuse when 
a man complains that, if he does not depart from his engage- 
ment, he will suffer great loss. Hence it is, that we gene- 
rally see so much unfaithfulness among men, that they do 
not consider themselves bound to perform the promises 
which they have made, except in so far as it will promote 
their own personal interest. David, therefore, condemning 
this inconstancy, requires the children of God to exhibit 
the greatest stedfastness in the fulfilment of their promises. 
Here the question might be asked, If a man, having fallen 
into the hands of a highwayman, promise him a sum of 
money to save his life, and if, in consequence of this, he is 
let go, should he in that case keep his promise? Again, 
if a man has been basely deceived, in entering into a con- 
tract, is it lawful for him to break the oath which he shall 
have made in such an engagement? With respect to the 
highwayman, he who confers upon him money falls into 
another fault, for he supports at his own expense a common 
enemy of mankind to the detriment of the public welfare. 
David does not impose upon the faithful such an alternative 
as this, but only enjoins them to show a greater regard to 
their promises than to their own personal interests, and to do 
this especially when their promises have been confirmed by an 
oath. As to the other case, namely, when a person has sworn, 
from being deceived and imposed upon by wicked artifice, he 
ought certainly to hold the holy name of God in such vene- 
ration, as rather patiently to submit to loss than violate his 
oath. Yet it is perfectly lawful for him to discover or reveal the 
fraud which has been practised upon him, provided he is not 
led to do so by a regard to his own personal interest ; and 
there is, besides, nothing to hinder him from peaceably endea- 
vouring to compromise the matter with his adversary. Many 
of the Jewish expositors restrict this passage to vows, as if 
David exhorted the faithful to perform their vows when they 
have promised to humble and afflict themselves by fasting. 
But in this they are mistaken. Nothing is farther from his 
meaning than this, for he discourses here only of the second 
table of the law, and of the mutual rectitude which men 
should maintain in their dealings with one another. 


212 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XV. 


. 

5. He putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh bribes 
upon the innocent. He that doeth these things shall not be 
moved for ever. 

In this verse David enjoins the godly neither to oppress 
their neighbours by usury, nor to suffer themselves to be 
corrupted with bribes to favour unrighteous causes. With 
respect to the first clause, as David seems to condemn all 
kinds of usury in general, and without exception, the very 
name has been every where held in detestation. But 
crafty men have invented specious names under which to 
conceal the vice; and thinking by this artifice to escape, they 
have plundered with greater excess than if they had lent on 
usury avowedly and openly. God, however, will not be 
dealt with and imposed upon by sophistry and false pretences. 
He lodks upon the thing as it really is. There is no worse 
species of usury than an unjust way of making bargains, 
where equity is disregarded on both sides. Let us then 
remember that all bargains in which the one party unright- 
eously strives to make gain by the loss of the other party, 
whatever name may be given to them, are here condemned, 
It may be asked, Whether all kinds of usury are to be 
put into this denunciation, and regarded as alike unlawful? If 
we condemn all without distinction, there is a danger lest 
many, seeing themselves brought into such a strait, as to 
find that sin must be incurred, in whatever way they can turn 
themselves, may be rendered bolder by despair, and may rush 
headlong into all kinds of usury, without choice or discrimina- 
tion. On the other hand, whenever we concede that some- 
thing may be lawfully done this way, many will give them- 
selves loose reins, thinking that a liberty to exercise usury, 
without control or moderation, has been granted them. In 
the first place, therefore, I would, above all things, counsel 
my readers to beware of ingeniously contriving deceitful 
pretexts, by which to take advantage of their fellow-men, and 
let them not imagine that any thing can be lawful to them 
which is grievous and hurtful to others. 

With respect to usury, it is scarcely possible to find in the 
world a usurer who is not at the same time an extortioner, __ 
aud addicted to unlawful anddishonourablegain. Accordingly, 


PSALM XV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 213 


Cato! of old justly placed the practice of usury and the killing of 
men in the same rank of criminality, for the object of this class 
of people is to suck the blood of other men. It is also a very 
strange and shameful thing, that, while all other men obtain 
the means of their subsistence with much toil, while husband- 
men fatigue themselves by their daily occupations, and artisans 
serve the community by the sweat of their brow, and mer- 
chants not only employ themselves in labours, but also expose 
themselves to many inconveniences and dangers,—that money- 
mongers should sit at their ease without doing any thing, and 
receive tribute from the labour of all other people. Besides, 
we know that generally it is not the rich who are exhausted 
by their usury,” but poor men, who ought rather to be 
relieved. It is not, therefore, without cause that God has, in 
Ley. xxy. 35, 36, forbidden usury, adding this reason, “ And 
if thy brother be waxen poor and fallen in decay with thee, 
then thou shalt relieve him; take thou no usury of him or 
increase.” We see that the end for which the law was 
framed was, that men should not cruelly oppress the poor, 
who ought rather to receive sympathy and compassion.* This 
was, indeed, a part of the judicial law which God appointed 
for the Jews in particular; but it is a common principle of 
justice which extends to all nations and to all ages, that we 
should keep ourselves from plundering and deyouring the 
poor who are in distress and want. Whence it follows, that 
the gain which he who lends his money upon interest acquires, 
without doing injury to any one, is not to be included under 


1 “ C*estoit un personnage Romain de grande reputation.”—Fr. marg. 
“ This was a Roman personage of great reputation.”—See Cicero de Ofji- 

2 “Ce ne sont pas les riches lesquels on mange d’usures."—Fr. “ It 
is not the rich whom they devour by usuries.” 

3 “ The Jews were prohibited by the law from taking usury or interest 
on money lent to their brethren, but not on what was lent to stran . 
that is, foreigners of other countries, (Deut. xxiii. 20.) The manifest desi 
of this prohibition was, to promote humane and fraternal sentiments rey 5 
bosoms of the Israelites towards each other. A more remote end seems 
also to have been aimed at, viz., to check the formation of a commercial 
character among the Jews, and to confine them as much as ible to 
those agricultural and private pursuits, which would seclude them from 
intercourse with the surrounding nations, as it was not very ape: Pups a 
practice of this nature would be extended much among foreigners which was 
_ prohibited at home.”—Wal/ord’s New Translation of the Book of Psalms. 


214 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XV. 


the head of unlawful usury. ‘The Hebrew word 3; nesheh, 
which David employs, being derived from another word, 
which signifies to bite, sufficiently shows that usuries are 
condemned in so far as they involve in them or lead toa 
license of robbing and plundering our fellow-men. Ezekiel, 
indeed, chapters xviii. 17, and xxii. 12, seems to condemn the 
taking of any interest whatever upon money lent; but he 
doubtless has an eye to the unjust and crafty arts of gain- 
ing, by which the rich devoured the poor people. In short, 
provided we had engraven on our hearts the rule of equity, 
which Christ prescribes in Matthew vii. 12, “ Therefore, all 
things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do 
ye even so to them,” it would not be necessary to enter into 
lengthened disputes concerning usury. 

What next follows in the text properly applies to judges who, 
being corrupted by presents and rewards, pervert all law and 
justice. It may, however, be extended farther, inasmuch as it 
often happens, that even private individuals are corrupted by 
bribes to favour and defend bad causes. David, therefore, 
comprehends, in general, all those corruptions by which we 
are led away from truth and uprightness. Some think that 
what is here intended is the rapacity of judges in extorting 
money from the innocent who are accused, as the price of their 
deliverance, when they ought rather to have protected and 
assisted them gratuitously. But it appears from the passages 
similar to this in Ezekiel, which we have quoted, that the 
sense is different. 

He who doeth these things. 'This conclusion warns us again, 
that all who thrust themselves into the sanctuary of God 
are not permanent citizens of “the holy Jerusalem which 


is above ;”' but that hypocrites, and all who falsely assumethe . 


title of saints, shall at length be “ cast out” with Ishmael 
whom they resemble. That which is ascribed in Psalm xlvi. 
to the whole Church, David here applies to every one of the 
faithful: He shall not be moved for ever. The reason of this 
which is there expressed is, because God dwells in the midst 
of Jerusalem. On the contrary, we know that he is far from 
the perfidious and the wicked, who approach him only with 
the mouth, and with feigned lips. 


1 “ Te la saincte Jerusalem celeste.” —Fr. 


—— 


= s 


_ PSALM XVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. ; 215 


PSALM XVI. 


Tn the beginning David commends himself to the protection of God. He 

- then meditates upon the benefits which he received from God, and 

thereby stirs himself up to thanksgiving. By his service, itis true, he 
could in no respect be profitable to God, but he, notwithstanding, 

surrenders and devotes himself entirely to him, protesting that he will 

.  haye nothing to do with superstitions. He also states the reason of 
this to be, that full and substantial happiness consists in resting in 
God alone, who never suffers his own people to want any good thing. 


¥ Mictam of David. 


As to the meaning of the word mictam, the Jewish expositors are not 
of one mind. Some derive it from ons, catham,} as if it were a golden 
crest or jewel. Others think it is the beginning of a song, which at that 
time was very common. To others it seems rather to be some kind of 
tune, and this opinion I am inclined to adopt. 


1. Keep [or guard?) me, O God ; for in thee do I trust.* 
Tuis is a prayer in which David commits himself to the 


1 The word means gold, the finest gold, and those who understand it in this 

~ sense here, pherk the peste receives this title to denote that it is fit to be 
written in letters of gold; and some conjecture that the psalms distinguished 

is title were, on some occasion or other, thus written and hung up 
sanctuary. Others are of-opinion that the word mictam is derived 
pn, catham, which signifies to mark, to engrave, to denote that the 
is fit to be engraven on a valuable and durable pillar, to be pre- 
in everlasting remembrance. ‘This is the meaning attached to the 
the Septuagint, which translates it oryAcveaQ/a, an inscription on 
or monument. In either of bars views the title a but be 
as peculiarl ropriate to this sacred poem. “ As a sepulchral 
ion,” aie Baton Mant. “it might have been written on our 
's tomb; as a triumphal monument, it might have been sung by 
him in the region of departed spirits ; and in either, or in any sense, it may 
well be es as a golden composition, as apples of gold in network of 
silver, invaluable in its subject, most pleasing in its structure.” Calvin, 
however, considers the title as referring to the tune, and in this he is = 


Tae 


i 


2 Guard me. The Hebrew — expresses the a of those who 
watch over another’s safety, as of guards attending their king, or a shep- 
herd ing his flock.”— Horsley. 

3“ The Hebrew word smu, chasithi, from vm, chasah, denotes to betake 
one’s self for refuge to any one, under whose protection he may be safe, as 
chickens under the wing of the hen.” —Buzxtor/f. 


— 


216 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI. 


protection of God. He does not, however, here implore the 
aid of God, in some particular emergency, as he often does in 
other psalms, but he beseeches him to show himself his 
protector during the whole course of his life, and indeed our 
safety both in life and in death depends entirely upon our 
being under the protection of God. What follows concern- 
ing trust, signifies much the same thing as if the Holy Spirit 
assured us by the mouth of David, that God is ready to 
succour all of us, provided we rely upon him with a sure and 


stedfast faith; and that he takes under his protection none — 


but those who commit themselves to him with their whole 
heart. At the same time, we must be reminded that Dayid, 
supported by this trust, continued firm and unmoved amidst 
all the storms of adversity with which he was buffeted. 


2. Thou shalt say unto Jehovah, Thou art my Lord, my well- 

doing extendeth not unto thee. 

3. Unto the saints who are on the earth, and to the excellent ; all 

my delight is in them. 

2. Thou shalt say unto Jehovah. David begins by stating 
that he can bestow nothing upon God, not only because God 
stands in no need of any thing, but also because mortal man 
cannot merit the favour of God by any service which he can 
perform to him. At the same time, however, he takes cour- 
age, and, as God accepts our devotion, and the service which 
we yield to him, Dayid protests that he will be one of his 
servants. To encourage himself the’ more effectually to this 
duty he speaks to his own soul; for the Hebrew word which 
is rendered Thou shalt say, is of the feminine gender, which 
can refer only to the soul.1_ Some may prefer reading the 
word in the past tense, Thou hast said, which I think is 
unobjectionable, for the Psalmist is speaking of an affec- 
tion which had a continued abode in his soul. The import 
of his language is, I am, indeed, fully convinced in my 
heart, and know assuredly, that God can derive no profit 
I The word vex, naphshi, is commonly supposed to be understood, Thou, 
my soul, shalt say, or hast said. But all the ancient versions, except 
the Chaldee, read in the first person, I have said, and this is the reading 


in many MSS. The words, however, “Thou, my soul, hast said,” are 
equivalent to “ I have said.” ; 


‘PSALM XVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 217 


or advantage from me; but notwithstanding this, I will 
join myself in fellowship with the saints, that with one 
accord we may worship him by the sacrifices of praise. Two 
things are distinctly laid down in this verse. The first is, 
that God has a right to require of us whatever he pleases, 
seeing we are wholly bound to Him as our rightful pro- 
prietor and Lord. David, by ascribing to him the power 
and the dominion of Lord, declares that both himself and 
all he possessed are the property of God. The other par- 
ticular contained in this verse is, the acknowledgment which 
the Psalmist makes of his own indigence. My well-doing 
extendeth not unto thee. Interpreters expound this last clause 
in two ways. As "DY, aleyha, may be rendered upon thee, 
some draw from it this sense, that God is not brought 
under obligation, or in the least degree indebted to us, by 
any good deeds which we may perform to him; and they 
understand the term goodness in a passive sense, as if David 
affirmed that whatever goodness he received from God did 
not proceed from any obligation he had laid God under, or 
from any merit which he possessed. But I think the sen- 
tence has a more extensive meaning, namely, that let men | 
strive ever so much to lay themselves out for God, yet they 
- can bring no advantage to him. Our goodness extendeth 
not to him, not only because, having in himself alone an 
all-sufficiency, he stands in need of nothing,! but also be- 
cause we are empty and destitute of all good things, and 
have nothing with which to show ourselves liberal to- 
wards him. From this doctrine, however, the other point 
which I have before touched upon will follow, namely, that 
it is impossible for men, by any merits of their own, to bring 
God under obligation to them, so as to make him their 
debtor. The sum of the discourse is, that when we come 
before God, we must lay aside all presumption. When 
we imagine that there is any good thing in us, we need 
not wonder if he reject us, as we thus take away from him 
a principal part of the honour which is his due. But, on 


aoa Se engin reads, ‘ for Kite ov ov xeeav ixes.” “Thou 
no of my goodness, [or good things.”] The reading in Tyndale’s 
Bible is, ‘* My are nothing unto thee a 


218 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI. 


the contrary, if we acknowledge that all the services which 
we can yield him are in themselves things of nought, and 
undeserving of any recompense, this humility is as a perfume 
of a sweet odour, which will procure for them acceptance 
with God, 


3. Unto the saints who are on the earth. Almost all are 
agreed in understanding this place, as if David, after the 
sentence which we have just now been considering, had 
added, The only way of serving God aright is to endeayour 
to do good to his holy servants. And the truth is, that God, 
as our good deeds cannot extend to him, substitutes the 
saints in his place, towards whom we are to exercise our 
charity. When men, therefore, mutually exert themselves in 
doing good to one another, this is to yield to God right 
and acceptable service. We ought, doubtless, to extend our 
charity even to those who are unworthy of it, as our heavenly 
Father “maketh his sun to rise on the eyil and on the good,” 
(Matth. v. 45;) but David justly prefers the saints to 
others, and places them in a higher rank. This, then, as 
I have said in the commencement, is the common opinion 
of almost all interpreters! But although I do not deny 
that this doctrine is comprehended under the words of Dayid, 
I think he goes somewhat farther, and intimates that he will 
unite himself with the devout worshippers of God, and be 
their associate or companion; even as all the children of 
God ought to be joined together by the bond of fraternal 
unity, that they may all serve and call upon their common 
Father with the same affection and zeal.?, We thus see that 
David, after having confessed that he can find nothing in 
himself to bring to God, seeing he is indebted to him for 
every thing which he has, sets his affections upon the 
saints, because it is the will of God that, in this world, 
he should be magnified and exalted in the assembly of the 
just, whom he has adopted into his family for this end, that 


1“ Voyla done Se que j’ay commencé a dire) l’opinion commune, 
uasi de tous,” — 
2 “Tun hf et d'une mesme affection.”—Fr. “ With one accord, 
and with the same affection.” 


~~ 


, 


PSALM XVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 219 


they may live together with one accord under his authority, 
and under the guidance of his Holy Spirit. This pass- 
age, therefore, teaches us that there is no sacrifice more 
acceptable to God than when we sincerely and heartily con- 
nect ourselves with the society of the righteous, and being 
knit together by the sacred bond of godliness, cultivate and 
maintain with them brotherly good-will. In this consists the 
communion of saints which separates them from the degrad- 
ing pollutions of the world, that they may be the holy and 
peculiar people of God. He expressly speaks of the saints 
who are on the earth, because it is the will of God that, even 
in this world, there should be conspicuous marks, and as it 
were visible escutcheons,' of his glory, which may serve to 
conduct us to himself. The faithful, therefore, bear his 
image, that, by their example, we may be stirred up to 
meditation upon the heavenly life. For the same reason, 
the Psalmist calls them excellent, or honourable, because there 
is nothing which ought to be more precious to us than 
righteousness and holiness, in which the brightness of God’s 
Spirit shines forth; just as we are commanded in the pre- 
ceding psalm to prize and honour those who fear God. 
We ought, therefore, highly to value and esteem the true 
and devoted servants of God, and to regard nothing as of 
greater importance than to connect ourselves with their 
society ; and this we will actually do if we wisely reflect in 
what true excellence and dignity consist, and do not allow | 
the vain splendour of the world and its deceitful pomps to 

dazzle our eyes. 


4. Their sorrows shall be multiplied who offer to a stranger ;* 
I will not taste their libations * of blood, nor will I take 
their names in my lips. 


1“ Et comme armoiries apparentes.”—Fr. 

2 A un Dieu et autre que le vray Dieu.”—Note, Fr. marg. 
“ That is, to a strange and another than the true God.” 

3 In the Latin version, the word es “6 ae a which means either fo 
taste, or to pour out in offering ; in the French version it is “ gousteray,” 
which means simply to taste. ‘‘ The Gentiles used,” says Poole, (as 
diverse learned men have observed,) to offer, and sometimes to drink part 
of the blood of their sacrifices, whether of beasts or of men, as either of 
them were sacrificed.” —Annotations. 

4 In the French version, the word is “ sacrifices,” on which Calvin has 


220 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI. 


The Psalmist now describes the true way of maintaining 
brotherly concord with the saints, by declaring that he will 
have nothing to do with unbelievers and the superstitious. 
We cannot be united into the one body of the Church under 
God, if we do not break off all the bonds of impiety, separate 
ourselves from idolaters, and keep ourselves pure and at a 
distance from all the pollutions which corrupt and vitiate the 
holy service of God. This is certainly the general drift of 
David’s discourse. But as to the words there is a diversity 
of opinion among expositors. Some translate the first word 
of the verse FAY, atsboth, by idols,’ and according to this 
rendering the meaning is, that after men in their folly have 
once begun to make to themselves false gods, their madness 
breaks forth without measure, until they accumulate an im- 
mense multitude of deities. As, however, this word is here 
put in the feminine gender, I prefer translating it sorrows or 
troubles, although it may still have various meanings. Some 
think it is an imprecation, and they read, Let their sorrows 
be multiplied; as if David, inflamed with a holy zeal, 
denounced the just vengeance of God against the supersti- 
tious. Others, whose opinions I prefer, do not change the 
tense of the verb, which in the Hebrew is future, Their 
sorrows shall be multiplied; but to me they do not seem to 
express, with sufficient clearness, what kind of sorrows 
David intends. They say, indeed, that wretched idolaters 
are perpetually adding to their new inventions, in doing 
which, they miserably torment themselves. But I am of 


the following note on the margin :— Le mot signifie proprement bruvages 
accoustumez en sacrifices.”—"* The word properly signifies the customary 
drinks in sacrifices.” 

1 The Chaldee version reads, “ their idols.” The see fons, xe reads, 
dobeveras avrwyv, ** their weaknesses,” or ‘ afflictions ;” and the Syriac and 
Arabic use a word of similar oe ig Bishop Patrick paraphrases the verse 
as follows :—‘t They multiply idols, (here in this place whither I am dri 
1 Sam. xxvi. 19,) and are zealous in the service of another God. But. 
will never forsake thee by partaking with them in their abominable sacri- 
fices, (in which the blood of men is offered,) nor by swearing by the name 
of any of their false gods.” “ Dathe observes, that mssy never signifies 
idols, the proper word being mss¥. See Gesenius and 1 Sam. xxxi. 9; 
2 Sam. v. 21; Hosea iv. 17. The other versions of the Polyglott support 
the common interpretation, which is also page af Dathe, Horsiey, 
Berlin, and De Rossi.”—Roger’s Book of , in Hebrew, strically 
Arranged, vol. ii. p. 172, 


a 


PSALM XVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 221 


opinion, that by this word there is, at the same time, 
denoted the end and issue of the pains which they take in 
committing it; it points out that they not only put them- 
selves to trouble without any profit or advantage, but also 
miserably harass and busy themselves to accomplish their 
own destruction. As an incitement to him to withdraw 
himself farther from their company, he takes this as an 
incontrovertible principle, that, so far from deriving any 
advantage from their vain superstitions, they only, by their 
strenuous efforts in practising them, involve themselves in 
greater misery and wretchedness. For what must be the 
issue with respect to those miserable men who willingly 
surrender themselves as bond-slaves to the devil, but to be 
disappointed of their hope? even as God complains in Jere- 
miah, (chap. ii. 13,) “ They have forsaken me the fountain 
of living waters, and hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns, 
that can hold no water.” 

In the next clause thereis also someambiguity. The Hebrew 
word 979, mahar, which we have translated to offer, in the 
conjugation al signifies to endow, or to give. But as, in 
the conjugation hiphil, it is more frequently taken for to run, 
or to make haste,’ many have preferred this latter meaning, 
and interpret the clause thus, that superstitious persons 
eagerly hasten after strange gods. And in fact we see 
them rushing into their idolatries with all the impetuosity 
and recklessness of madmen running in the fields ;? and 
the prophets often upbraid them for this inconsiderate 
frenzy with which they are fired. I would, therefore, 
be much disposed to adopt this sense were it supported by 
the common usage of the language; but as grammarians 


1 Walford translates the verse thus :— 
‘* They multiply their sorrows who hastily turn backward ; 

Their libations of blood will I not offer ; 

Nor will I take their names upon my lips.” 
And the sense which he attaches to the passage is, that David having in 
the preceding verse declared his delight in the righteous, here states that 
those who turn away from God aud be truth augment their own suffer- 
ings ; and affirms it to be his resolution to have no fellowship with them 
in their religious services, which were polluted and detestable, or in the 
intercourse of friendship by making mention of their names. 
_.* “ Et de faict, nous voyons de quelle impetuosite ils se jettent en leurs 
idolatries sans regarder & rien, tellement qu'il semble que ce soyent gens 


-  forcenez, qui courent & travers champs.”—Fr. 


222 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI. 


observe that there is not to be found another similar passage 
in Scripture, I have followed, in my translation, the first 
opinion. In short, the sum of what the Psalmist says is this, 
That unbelievers, who lavish and squander away their sub- 
stance upon their idols, not only lose all the gifts and offer- 
ings which they present to them, but also, by provoking the 
wrath of God against themselves, are continually increasing 
the amount of their miseries. Perhaps, also, the prophet 
has an allusion to the common doctrine of Scripture, that 
idolaters violate the promise of the spiritual marriage con- 
tracted with the true God, and enter into covenant with idols.* 
Ezekiel (chap. xvi. 33) justly upbraids the Jews, in that 
while the custom is for the lover to allure the harlot with 
presents, they, on the contrary, offered rewards to the idols to 
whom they prostituted and abandoned themselves. But the 
meaning which we have above given brings out the spirit of 
the passage, namely, that unbelievers, who honour their 
false gods by offering to them gifts, not only lose what is 
thus expended, but also heap up for themselves sorrows 
upon sorrows, because at last the issue will be miserable 
and ruinous to them. 


I will not taste their libations of blood. By libations of — 


blood some understand that there is a reference to sacrifices 
made of things acquired by murder or rapine. As, however, 
the prophet is not here inveighing against cruel and blood- 
thirsty men, but condemns, in general, all false and corrupt 
religious worship; and again, as he does not directly name 
sacrifices, but expressly speaks of the ceremony of taking 
the cup, and tasting a little of it, which was observed in 
offering sacrifices,? I have no doubt but that to this cere- 
mony, as it was observed according to the law of God, he 
here tacitly opposes the drinking of blood in heathen sacri- 
fices. We know that God, in order to teach his ancient 
people to hold in greater abhorrence murder and all cruelty, 


1 Horsley reads, “ They shall multiply their sorrows ret betroth 
themselves to another. That is, who go a whoring after other gods.” 

2 “ Mais touche nommément la ceremonie qu’on observoit es sacrifices 
ascavoir de prendre la coupe et en gouster un peu.”—Fr. On the margin 
of the French version there is a reference to Commentaries of Calvin 
upon Matth, xxvi, 26, and Gen, ix. 4. 


=e = 








PSALM XVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 223 


forbade them to eat or to drink blood either in their com- 
mon food or in sacrifices. On the contrary, the histories 
of the heathen nations bear testimony that the custom 
of tasting the blood in their sacrifices prevailed among 
them. David, therefore, protests, that he will not only keep 
himself uncontaminated by the corrupt and false opinions by 
which idolaters are seduced, but that he will also take care 
not to show outwardly any token of his complying with or 
approving them. In the same sense we are to understand 
what follows immediately after, I will not take their names in 
my lips. This implies that he will hold idols in such hatred and 
detestation, as to keep himself from naming them as from 
execrable treason against the majesty of heaven. Not that it 
is unlawful to pronounce their names, which we frequently 
meet with in the writings of the prophets, but David felt he 
could not otherwise more forcibly express the supreme horror 
and detestation with which the faithful ought to regard false 
gods. This is also shown by the form of expression which 
he employs, using the relative only, their names, although 
he has not expressly stated before that he is speaking of idols. 
Thus, by his example, he enjoins believers not only to beware 
of errors and wicked opinions, but also to abstain from all 
appearance of giving their consent to them. He evidently 
speaks of external ceremonies, which indicate either the true 
religion, or some perverse superstition. If, then, it is unlawful 
for the faithful to show any token of consenting to or comply- 
ing with the superstitions of idolaters, Nicodemuses (who 
falsely call themselves by this name’) must not think to 
shelter themselves under the frivolous pretext that they have 
not renounced the faith, but keep it hidden within their hearts, 
when they join in the observance of the profane superstitions 
of the Papists. Some understand the words strangers and 
their names, as denoting the worshippers of false gods; but 
in my judgment David rather means the false gods them- 
selves. The scope of his discourse is this: The earth is 
filled with an immense accumulation’ of superstitions in every 


1 “ Qui se nomment ainsi a tort.”—Fr. 


2 Quoy que la terre soit pleine d’un grand amas d’infinite de super- 
stitions.”—Fr. 


224 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI. 


possible variety, and idolaters are lavish beyond all bounds 
in ornamenting their idols; but the good and the holy will 
ever regard all their superstitious inventions with abhor- 
rence, 


5. Jehovah is the portion of mine inheritance, and of my cup ; 
thou sustainest my lot. 

6. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places; yea, I have 
a goodly heritage. 


5. The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance. Here the 
Psalmist explains his sentiments more clearly. He shows 
the reason why he separates himself from idolaters, and 
resolves to continue in the church of God, why he shuns, 
with abhorrence, all participation in their errors, and cleayes 
to the pure worship of God; namely, because he rests inthe 
only true God as his portion. The unhappy restlessness of 
those blind idolaters! whom we see going astray, and running 
about as if stricken and impelled by madness, is doubtless to — 
be traced to their destitution of the true knowledge of God. 
All who have not their foundation and trust in God must 
necessarily be often in a state of irresolution and uncertainty ; 
and those who do not hold the true faith in such a manner 
as to be guided and governed by it, must be often carried 
away by the overflowing floods of errors which prevail in 
the world.? This passage teaches us, that none are taught — 
aright in true godliness but those who reckon God alone - 
sufficient for their happiness. David, by calling God the 
portion of his lot, and his inheritance, and his cup, protests 
that he is so fully satisfied with him alone, as neither to covet 
any thing besides him, nor to be excited by any depraved : 
desires. Let us therefore learn, when God offers himself to 
us, to embrace him with the whole heart, and to seek in him _ 
only all the ingredients and the fulness of our happiness. — 
All the superstitions which have ever prevailed in the world 
have undoubtedly proceeded from this source, that supersti- 
tious men have not been contented with possessing God 








1 “ De ces aveugles d’idolatres.”—Fr. 


? “ Transportez par les desbordemens impetueux des erreurs qui 
regnent au monde,.”—Fr. 





7 oe 


PSALM XVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 225 


alone. But we do not actually possess him unless “he is the 
portion of our inheritance ;” in other words, unless we are 
wholly devoted to him, so as no longer to have any desire 
unfaithfully to depart from him. For this reason, God, 
when he upbraids the Jews who had wandered from him 
as apostates,' with having run about after idols, addresses 
them thus, “ Let them be thine inheritance, and thy por- 
tion.” By these words he shows, that if we do not reckon 
him alone an all-sufficient portion for us, and if we will have 
idols along with him,’ he gives place entirely to them, and 
lets them have the full possession of our hearts. David here 
employs three metaphors; he first compares God to an 
inheritance; secondly, to a cup; and, thirdly, he represents 
him as He who defends and keeps him in possession of his 


- inheritance. By the first metaphor he alludes to the heri- 


tages of the land of Canaan, which we know were divided 
among the Jews by divine appointment, and the law com- 
manded every one to be content with the portion which had 
fallen to him. By the word cup is denoted either the 
revenue of his own proper inheritance, or by synecdoche, 
ordinary food by which life is sustained, seeing drink is a 
part of our nourishment.’ It is as if David had said, God is 
mine both in respect of property and enjoyment. Nor is the 
third comparison superfluous. It often happens that rightful 
owners are put out of their possession because no one defends 
them. But while God has given himself to us for an inherit- 
ance, he has engaged to exercise his power in maintaining 
us in the safe enjoyment of a good so inconceivably great. 
It would be of little advantage to us to have once obtained 
him as ours, if he did not secure our possession of him against 
the assaults which Satan daily makes upon us. Some explain 
the third clause as if it had been said, Thou art my ground 
in which my portion is situated; but this sense appears to me 
to be cold and unsatisfactory. 


6. The lines* have fallen to me. The Psalmist confirms 


1 * Qui s’estoyent destournez de lui comme apostats.”—Fr. 

2 * Ains que no’vueillions avoir avec lui les idoles.”— 

* “ D’autant que le bruvage est une partie de nostre nourriture.”—Fr, 

* The Hebrew is measuring lines. ere is here an allusion to the 
VOL, I. P 


226 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI. 


more fully what he had already said in the preceding verse © 


with respect to his resting, with a composed and tranquil 
mind, in God alone ; or rather, he so glories in God as nobly 
to despise all that the world imagines to be excellent and 
desirable without him. By magnifying God in such honour- 
able and exalted strains, he gives us to understand that he 
does not desire any thing more as his portion and felicity. 
This doctrine may be profitable to us in many ways. It 
ought to draw us away not only from all the perverse inven- 
tions of superstition, but also from all the allurements of the 
flesh and of the world. Whenever, therefore, those things 
present themselves to us which would lead us away from resting 
in God alone, let us make use of this sentiment as an antidote 
against them, that we have sufficient cause for being con- 
tented, since he who has in himself an absolute fulness of all 
good has given himself to be enjoyed by us. In this way 
we will experience our condition to be always pleasant and 
comfortable; for he who has God as his portion is destitute 
of nothing which is requisite to constitute a happy life. 


7. Iwill magnify Jehovah, who giveth me counsel ; even in the 
night my reins instruct me.' 


Last of all, David confesses that it was entirely owing to 
the pure grace of God that he had come to possess so great 
a good, and that he had been made a partaker of it by faith. 
It would be of no advantage to us for God to offer himself 


ancient division of the land of Canaan among God’s chosen people. This 
was done by lot, and the length and breadth of the portion of each tribe 
was ascertained by cords or measuring lines. Hence they came to signify 
the land so measured out. 

1“ My reins” is the literal rendering of the Hebrew text, and they 
denote the working of the thoughts and affections of the soul. ‘ As com- 
mon experience,” says Parkhurst, “ shows that the workings of the mind, 
particularly the passions of joy, grief, and fear, have a very remarkable 
effect on the reins or kidneys, so, from their retired situation in the body, 
and their being hid in fat, they are often used in Scripture to denote 
most secret working of the soul and affections.” ‘‘ The reins or kidneys,” 
says Walford, in a note on this passage, “‘ are used to signify the interior 
faculties ; and the divine speaker observes, that in seasons of solitude, 
his thoughts were instinctively employed in contemplating the heavenly 
discoveries that were communicated to him.” In dale’s Bible the 
reading of the last clause is, ‘‘ My reins also have chastened me in the night 
season.” And Fry observes, that the word “ps signifies not so imme- 
diately to instruct, as to chasten, correct, or discipline.” 





7 


a 





PSALM XVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 227 


freely and graciously to us, if we did not receive him by 
faith, seeing he invites to himself both the reprobate and the 
elect in common; but the former, by their ingratitude, 
defraud themselves of this inestimable blessing. Let us, 
therefore, know that both these things proceed from the free 
liberality of God; first, his being our inheritance, and next, 
our coming to the possession of him by faith. The counsel 
of which David makes mention is the inward illumination of 
the Holy Spirit, by which we are prevented from rejecting 
the salvation to which he calls us, which we would otherwise 
certainly do, considering the blindness of our flesh.1_ Whence 
we gather, that those who attribute to the free will of man the 
choice of accepting or rejecting the grace of God basely mangle 
that grace, and show as much ignorance as impiety. That 
this discourse of David ought not to be understood of exter- 
nal teaching appears clearly from the words, for he tells us 
that he was instructed in the night when he was removed from 
the sight of men. Again, when he speaks of this being done 
in his reins, he doubtless means secret imspirations.? Farther, 
it ought to be carefully observed, that, in speaking of the 
time when he was instructed, he uses the plural number, 
saying, it was done in the nights. By this manner of speak- 
ing, he not only aseribes to God the beginning of faith, but 
acknowledges that he is continually making progress under 
his tuition ; and, indeed, it is necessary for God, during the 
whole of our life, to continue to correct the vanity of our 
minds, to kindle the light of faith into a brighter flame, and 
by every means to advance us higher in the attainments of 
spiritual wisdom. 


8. Ihave set Jehovah continually before me; because he is at 
my right hand, I shall not be moved. 

9. Therefore my heart* is glad, my tongue rejoiceth ; my flesh 
also dwelleth in confidence, [or in security. ] 


8. I have set Jehovah, §c. The Psalmist again shows the 
1 Ce qu’autrement nous ferions, veu l’'aveuglement de nostre chair.” 


55 Calvin means that. God taught David by secret inspirations. 
3 “55, kabod, is the liver, which, like the heart, the reins, &c., is 
used for the mind, so that the sense is, I myself will rejoice.” — Walford. 


228 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI. 


firmness and stability of his faith. To set God before us is 
nothing else than to keep all our senses bound and captive, 
that they may not run out and go astray after any other 
object. We must look to him with other eyes than those 
of the flesh, for we shall seldom be able to perceive him 
unless we elevate our minds above the world; and faith 
prevents us from turning our back upon him. The mean- 
ing, therefore, is, that David kept his mind so intently 
fixed upon the providence of God, as to be fully persuaded, 
that whenever any difficulty or distress should befall him, 
God would be always at hand to assist him. He adds, also, 
continually, to show us how he constantly depended upon 
the assistance of God, so that, amidst the various conflicts 
with which he was agitated, no fear of danger could make 
him turn his eyes to any other quarter than to God in 
search of succour. And thus we ought so to depend upon 
God as to continue to be fully persuaded of his being near to 
us, even when he seems to be removed to the greatest dis- 
tance from us. When we shall have thus turned our eyes 
towards him, the masks and the vain illusions of this world 
will no longer deceive us. 

Because he is at my right hand. I read this second clause 
as a distinct sentence from the preceding. To connect them 
together as some do in this way, I have set the Lord conti- 
nually before me, because he is at my right hand, would give a 
meagre meaning to the words, and take away much of the truth 
which is taught in them, as it would make David to say, that 
he measured God’s presence according to the experience he had 
of it ; a mode of speaking which would not be at all becoming. 
I consider, therefore, the words, [have set the Lord continually 
before me, as a complete sentence, and David set the Lord 
before him for the purpose of constantly repairing to him in 
all his dangers. For his greater encouragement to hope well, 
he sets before himself what it is to have God’s assistance and 
fatherly care, namely, that it implies his keeping firm and 
unmoved his own people with whom he is present. Dayid then 
reckons himself secure against all dangers, and promises him- 
self certain safety, because, with the eyes of faith, he beholds 
Godas present with him. From this passage we are furnished 


ee ee a 








PSALM XVI THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 229 


with an argument which overthrows the fabrication of the 
Sorbonists,' that the faithful are in doubt with respect to their 
jinal perseverance ; for David, in very plain terms, extends 
his reliance on the grace of God to the time to come. And, 
certainly, it would be a very miserable condition to be in, to 
tremble in uncertainty every moment, having no assurance 
of the continuance of the grace of God towards us. 


9. Therefore my heart is glad. In this verse the Psalmist 
commends the inestimable fruit of faith, of which Scripture 
every where makes mention, in that, by placing us under the 
protection of God, it makes us not only to live in the enjoy- 
ment of mental tranquillity, but, what is more, to live joyful 
and cheerful. The principal, the essential part of a happy 
life, as we know, is to possess tranquillity of conscience and 
of mind; as, on the contrary, there is no greater infelicity 
than to be tossed amidst a multiplicity of cares and fears. 

But the ungodly, however much intoxicated with the 
spirit of thoughtlessness or stupidity, never experience true 
joy or serene mental peace; they rather feel terrible agita- 
tions within, which often come upon them and trouble them, 
so much as to constrain them to awake from their lethargy. 
In short, calmly to rejoice is the lot of no man but of 
him who has learned to place his confidence in God alone, 
and to commit his life and safety to his protection. When, 
therefore, encompassed with innumerable troubles on all sides, 
let us be persuaded, that the only remedy is to direct our 
eyes towards God; andif we do this, faith will not only tran- 
quillise our minds, but also replenish them with fulness of joy. 
David, however, not only affirms that he is glad inwardly ; 
he also makes his tongue, yea, even his flesh, sharers of this joy. 
And not without cause, for true believers not only have this 
spiritual joy in the secret affection of their heart, but also 
manifest it by the tongue, inasmuch as they glory in God as 
He who protects them and secures their salvation. The 
word "1)35, Aabod, properly signifies glory and excellence. I 
have, however, no doubt of its being here taken for the tongue,* 


1 The Doctors of the Sorbonne, a university in Paris. 
2 The reading of the Septuagint is, “ yAwsou gov,” “* my tongue.” 


230 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI. 


as it is in Gen. xlix. 6; for otherwise the division which is 
obviously made in this verse of the person into three parts is 
not so distinct and evident. Farther, although the body is not 
free from inconveniences and troubles, yet as God defends 
and maintains not only our souls, but also our bodies, Dayid 
does not speak groundlessly when he represents the blessing 
of dwelling in safety as extending to his flesh in common 
with his soul. 


10. For thou wilt not leave my soul in the grave; neither wilt 
thou make thy Holy One to see the pit. 


The Psalmist goes on to explain still more fully the pre- 
ceding doctrine, by declaring that as he is not afraid of death, 
there is nothing wanting which is requisite to the completion 
of his joy. Whence it follows, that no one truly trusts in 
God but he who takes such hold of the salvation which God 
has promised him as to despise death. Moreover, it is to be 
observed, that David’s language is not to be limited to some 
particular kind of deliverance, as in Psalm xlix. 15, where he 
says, “ God hath redeemed my soul from the power of the 
grave,” and in other similar passages; but he entertains 
the undoubted assurance of eternal salvation, which freed 
him from all anxiety and fear. It is as if he had said, 
There will always be ready for me a way of escape from the 
grave, that I may not remain in corruption. God, in deliver- 
ing his people from any danger, prolongs their life only for a 


This is unquestionably the meaning. David uses the word glory for 
the organ by which God is glorified or praised. The Apostle etn in 
quoting this passage, (Acts 11, 26,) reads, ‘* my tongue.” See also Ps. 
xxxvi. 12. 

1“ The Hebrew word shachath,” says Poole, ‘‘ though sometimes, by a 
metonomy, it signifies the pit or place of corruption, yet properly and 
generally it signifies corruption or perdition. And so it must fe vada 
stood here, although some of the Jews, to avoid the force of this 
ment, render it the pit. But in that sense it is not true, for whether it be 
meant of David, as they say, or of Christ, it is confessed that both of them 
did see the pit, that is, were laid in the grave.” Hence he concludes that 
corruption is the proper rendering of the original word. The phrase, 
however, to see the pit, may not mean to be laid in the grave, but to con- 
tinue in it for any length of time. ‘The meaning which Calvin attaches to 
the word pit is substantially that which our English translators attached to 
the original word which they render corruption. Hengstenberg adopts 
and defends Calvin’s rendering. 











Oe ee 


PSALM XVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 231 


short time; but how slender and how empty a consolation 
would it be to obtain some brief respite, and to take breath for 
a short time, until death, coming at last, should terminate 
the course of our life,’ and swallow us up without any 
hope of deliverance? Hence it appears that when David 
spake thus, he raised his mind above the common lot of man- 
kind. As the sentence has been pronounced upon all the 
children of Adam, “ Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt 
thou return,” (Gen. iii. 19,) the same condition in this respect 
awaits them all without exception. If, therefore, Christ, 


' who is the first-fruits of those who rise again, does not come 


forth from the grave, they will remain for ever under the 
bondage of corruption. From this Peter justly concludes, 
(Acts ii. 30,) that David could not have gloried in this 
manner but by the spirit of prophecy ; and unless he had 
had a special respect to the Author of life, who was promised 
to him, who alone was to be honoured with this privilege in 
its fullest sense. This, however, did not prevent Dayid from 
assuring himself of exemption from the dominion of death 
by right, seeing Christ, by his rising from the dead, obtained 
immortality not for himself individually, but for fis all. As 
to the point, that Peter (Acts ii. 30) and Paul (xiii. 33) 
contend that this prophecy was fulfilled in the person of 
Christ alone,® the sense in which we must understand them 
is this, that he was wholly and perfectly exempted from the 
corruption of the grave, that he might call his members into 
his fellowship, and make them partakers of this blessing,’ 
although by degrees, and each according to his measure. As 
the body of David, after death, was, in the course of time, 
reduced to dust, the apostles justly conclude that he was not 
exempted from corruption. It is the same with respect to 
all the faithful, not one of whom becomes a partaker of incor- 
ruptible life without being first subjected to corruption. 
From this it follows that the fulness of life which resides in 


_ | “ Jusqu’a ce que la mort finalement venant, rompist le cours de nos 
jours.” —Fr. 
* Thus we have the authority of two apostles for understanding the 
gorivding part of this psalm as a prophecy of Christ’s resurrection from 
8 « Et les faire venir a la participation de ce bien.”—Fr. 


232 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI. 


the head alone, namely, in Christ, falls down upon the mem- 
bers only in drops, or in small portions. The question, 
however, may be asked, as Christ descended into the grave, 
was not he also subject to corruption? The answer is 
easy. The etymology or derivation of the two words here 
used to express the graye should be carefully attended 
to. The grave is called yyw, sheol, being as it were an 
insatiable gulf, which devours and consumes all things, and 
the pit is called FMW, shachath, which signifies corruption. 
These words, therefore, here denote not so much the place as 
the quality and condition of the place, as if it had been said, 
The life of Christ will be exempted from the dominion of 
the grave, inasmuch as his body, even when dead, will 
not be subject to corruption. Besides, we know that the 
grave of Christ was filled, and as it were embalmed with 
the life-giving perfume of his Spirit, that it might be to 
him the gate to immortal glory. Both the Greek and Latin 
Fathers, I confess, have strained these words to a mean- 
ing wholly different, referring them to the bringing back 
of the soul of Christ from hell. But it is better to adhere 
to the natural simplicity of the interpretation which I haye 
given, that we may not make ourselves objects of ridicule to 
the Jews; and farther, that one subtilty, by engendering 
many others, may not involve us in alabyrinth. In the second 
clause mention is without doubt made of the body; and we 
know it to be a mode of speaking very common with David 
intentionally to repeat the same thing twice, making a slight 
variation as to words. It is true, we translate 5), nephesh, 
by soul, but in Hebrew it only signifies the vital breath, or life 
itself. 


1l. Thou wilt make me to know the path of life; fulness of joy is 
in thy countenance, pleasures are at thy right hand for 
evermore. 


The Psalmist confirms the statement made in the preced- 
ing verse, and explains the way in which God will exempt 
him from the bondage of death, namely, by conducting and 
bringing him at length safely to the possession of eternal life. 
Whence we again learn what I have already observed, that 





PSALM XVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 233 


this passage touches upon the difference which there is 
between true believers and aliens, or reprobates, with respect 
to their everlasting state. It is a mere cavil to say, that when 
Dayid here speaks of the path of life being shown to him, 
it means the prolongation of his natural life. It is to 
form a very low estimate, indeed, of the grace of God 
to speak of him as a guide to his people in the path of life 
only for a very few years in this world. In this case, they 
would differ nothing from the reprobate, who enjoy the light 
of the sun in common with them. If, therefore, it is the 
special grace of God which he communicates to none but his 
own children, that David here magnifies and exalts, the show- 
ing of the way of life, of which he speaks, must undoubtedly 
be viewed as extending to a blessed immortality ; and, indeed, 
he only knows the way of life who is so united to God that 
he lives in God, and cannot live without him. 

David next adds, that when God is reconciled to us, we 
haye all things which are necessary to perfect happiness. 
The phrase, the countenance of God, may be understood 
either of our being beheld by him, or of our beholding him; 
but I consider both these ideas as included, for his fatherly 
fayour, which he displays in looking upon us with a serene 
countenance, precedes this joy, and is the first cause of it, 
and yet this does not cheer us until, on our part, we behold 
it shining upon us. By this clause David also intended 
distinctly to express to whom those pleasures belong, of 
which God has in his hand a full and an overflowing abun- 
dance. As there are with God pleasures sufficient to replenish 
and satisfy the whole world, whence comes it to pass 
that a dismal and deadly darkness envelopes the greater 
part of mankind, but because God does not look upon all 
men equally with his friendly and fatherly countenance, nor 
opens the eyes of all men to seek the matter of their joy in 
him, and no where else? Fulness of joy is contrasted with 
the evanescent allurements and pleasures of this transitory 
world, which, after having diverted their miserable votaries 
for a time, leave them at length unsatisfied, famished, and 
disappointed. They may intoxicate and glut themselves 

with pleasures to the greatest excess, but, instead of being 


234 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI 


satisfied, they rather become wearied of them through 
loathing; and, besides, the pleasures of this world vanish 
away like dreams. David, therefore, testifies that true and 
solid joy in which the minds of men may rest will never be 
found any where else but in God; and that, therefore, none 
but the faithful, who are contented with his grace alone, can 
be truly and perfectly happy. : a 


PSALM XVII. 


This psalm contains a mournful complaint against the cruel pride of 
David's enemies. He protests that he did not deserve to be persecuted 
with such inhumanity, inasmuch as he had given them no cause for 
exercising their cruelty against him. At the same time, he beseeches 
God, as his protector, to put forth his power for his deliverance. The 
inscription of the psalm does not refer to any particular time, but it is 
probable that David here complains of Saul and his associates.* 


q A prayer of David. 


1. Hear my righteousness,? O Jehovah, attend to my cry ; hearken 
to my prayer, which proceedeth not from deceitful lips. 


2, Let my judgment [or judgment in my favour] come forth from 
the presence of thy countenance ;* let thine eyes look upon 


my uprightness. 
1. Hear my righteousness, O Jehovah. The Psalmist begins 


' This is the general opinion as to the occasion of the composition of 
this psalm. It is et that David, in representing his innocence of 
those things of which he was accused, refers to the charges preg —— 
him of traitorously aspiring to the kingdom, and seeking the 
1 Sam. xxiv. 9 ; and that therefore the persecutors and calumniators 
whom he beseeches God to deliver him were Saul and his courtiers. 

? The Vulgate, Athiopic, and Arabic versions read ‘* my right ss,” 
or ‘* my right,” as here and in our English version, meani is righteous 
cause. The Septuagint, “ Kugse rns dscasoovyns pov,” * 
righteousness.” Jerome reads, ‘* Audi, Deus, justum,” “ Hear, O 
the just one,” a reading which Horsley is inclined to adopt, viewing the 
Messiah as the speaker in this psalm. In the Syriac version the re is, 
‘“‘ Hear, O righteous Lord;” and this is followed by Bishop Horne, Dr 
Adam Clarke, and Dr Boothroyd. i 

3 ** Let my sentence come forth from ph on ;’ that is, be thou, O 
Jehovah, my judge in thine own person.”—Horsley. a 





PSALM XVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 235 


the psalm by setting forth the goodness of his cause. He 
does this because God has promised that he will not suffer 
the innocent to be oppressed, but will always, at length, 
succour them. Some explain the word righteousness as 
denoting righteous prayer, an interpretation which appears to 
me unsatisfactory. The meaning rather is, that David, con- 
fiding in his own integrity, interposes God as a Judge between 
himself and his enemies, to cognosce or determine in his 
cause. We have already seen, in a preceding psalm, that 
when we have to deal with wicked men, we may warrantably 
protest our innocence before God. As, however, it would 
not be enough for the faithful to have the approving testi- 
mony of a good conscience, David adds to his protestation 
earnest prayer. Even irreligious persons may often be able 
justly to boast of having a good cause; but as they do 
not acknowledge that the world is governed by the providence 
of God, they content themselves with enjoying the approba- 
tion of their own conscience, as they speak, and, gnawing the 
bit, bear the injuries which are done to them rather obsti- 
nately than stedfastly, seemg they do not seek for any 
consolation in faith and prayer. But the faithful not only 
depend upon the goodness of their cause, they also commit 
it to God that he may defend and maintain it; and whenever 
any adversity befalls them, they betake themselves to him 
for help. This, therefore, is the meaning of the passage; it 
is a prayer that God, who knew David to have done justly, 
and to have performed his duty without giving occasion to 
any to blame him,’ and, therefore, to be unrighteously 
molested by his enemies, would graciously look upon him ; 
and that he would do this especially, since, confiding in his 
aid, he entertained good hope, and, at the same time, prays 
to him with a sincere heart. By the words ery and prayer 
he means the same thing ; but the word ery, and the repeti- 
tion of what it denotes, by a different expression, serve to 
show his vehement, his intense earnestness of soul. Farther, 
as hypocrites talk loftily in commendation of themselves, and 
to show to others a token of the great confidence which they 


1 Que David se soit porté justement et fait son devoir sans donner a 
. aucun occasion de le blasmer.”—Fr. 


236 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVII. 


have in God, give utterance to loud cries, David protests 
concerning himself that he does not speak deceitfully ; in 
other words, that he does not make use of his crying and 


prayer as a pretext for covering his sins, but comes into the ~ 


presence of God with sincerity of heart. By this form of 
prayer the Holy Spirit teaches us, that we ought diligently 
to endeavour to live an upright and innocent life, so that, if 
there are any who give us trouble, we may be able to boast 
that we are blamed and persecuted wrongfully.! Again, 
whenever the wicked assault us, the same Spirit calls upon 
us to engage in prayer ; and if any man, trusting to the testi- 
mony of a good conscience which he enjoys, neglects the 
exercise of prayer, he defrauds God of the honour which 
belongs to him, in not referring his cause to him, and in not 
leaving him to judge and determine in it. Let us learn, also, 
that when we present ourselves before God in prayer, it is 
not to be done with the ornaments of an artificial eloquence, 
for the finest rhetoric and the best grace which we can have 
before him consists in pure simplicity. 


2. From the presence of thy countenance. Literally it is, from 
before thy face, or, before thy face. By these words David inti- 
mates that if God does not rise up as the vindicator of his 
cause, he will be overwhelmed with calumnies though innocent, 
and will be looked upon as a guilty and condemned person. 
The cognisance which God will take of his cause is tacitly set 
in opposition to the dark inventions of falsehood which were 
spread against him.? His language is as if he had said, I do 
not ask for any other judge but God, nor do I shrink from 
standing before his judgment-seat,’ since I bring with me 
both a pure heart and a good cause. What he immediately 


adds with respect to God’s looking upon his uprightness is of — 


similar import. He does not mean to say that God is blind, 
but only beseeches him actually to show that he does not 
connive at the wickedness of men, and that it is not to him 


r “ Que nous sommes blasmez et persecutez a tort.”—Fr. 
“ Car la cognoissance que Dieu prendra de sa cause est tacitement 
mise & l’opposite des tenebres des mensonges qu'on semoit contre luy.”—Fr, 
3 Et qu'il ne refuse int do vee devant le siege judicial 
d'iceluy. » iy, “* Nor dol refuse to answer before his judgment-seat.” 


i 








PSALM XVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 237 


a matter of indifference when he beholds those who have not 
the means of defending themselves! receiving evil treatment 
undeservedly. Some take the word judgment in too restricted 
a sense for the right to the kingdom which was promised to 
David, as if he petitioned to be placed on the royal throne 
by the power of God, inasmuch as he had been chosen by 
him to be king, and had also, in his name and by his autho- 
rity, been anointed to this office by the hand of Samuel. 
The meaning which I attach to David's language is simply 
this, that being oppressed with many and varied wrongs, he 
commits himself to the protection and defence of God. 


3. Thou hast proved my heart; thou hast visited it by night ; 
thou hast examined it, thou shalt find nothing; my thoughts 
shall not pass beyond my mouth.* 

4. As for the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have taken 
heed of [or watched] the ways of the destroyer.* 


3. Thou hast proved my heart. Some are of opinion that 
in the three first verbs the past tense is put for the future. 
Others more correctly and more clearly resolve the words 
thus : If thou provest my heart, and visitest it by night, and 
examinest it thoroughly, there will not be found any deceit 
therein. But without making any change upon the words, 
they may be suitably enough explained in this way: Thou, 
Lord, who understandest all the secret affections and thoughts 
of my heart, even as it is thy peculiar prerogative to try 
men, knowest very well that I am not a double man, and do 


1 * Qui n’ont pas moyen de se defendre.”—Fr. 
® Great difference of opinion has prevailed among critics, as to the 
rendering and oy eg of this and the following verse. The third 
verse is sone Sei us in Tyndale’s Bible :—‘‘ Thou hast proved and 
visited mine heart in the night seasons, thou hast tried me in the fire, and 
hast found no wickedness in me; for I utterly purposed that my mouth 
should not offend.” Geddes reads ‘the third clause of the verse, ‘* Thou hast 
smelted me, and found in me no dross ;” and observes, that smelted is “* a 
metaphor taken from the smelting of metals to urify them from extrane- 
ous matter.”"—Geddes’ New Translation of Book of Psalms, with 
Ne. — clause ae Sep third verse is ean to the first ‘clause 
‘fourth verse, in the ptuagint, Vignes. yriac, and Arabic ver- 
sions, and the reading is thus : n. mou <ehsncdimneen, prepped 
the evil designs of other men ;” that is, I have not countenanced or approved 
of them by word. 
Ms ne violent.”—Fr. ** Of the violent.” 


238 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVII. 





not cherish any deceit within. What David intended to 
express is certainly very evident. As he was unjustly and 
falsely charged with crime, and could obtain neither justice 
nor humanity at the hands of men, he appeals to God, 
requesting he would become judge in the matter But not 
to do this rashly, he subjects himself to an impartial exami- 
nation, seeing God, whose prerogative it is to search the 
secret recesses of the heart, cannot be deceived by the | 
external appearance. The time when he declares God to 
have visited him is during the night, because, when a man is 
withdrawn from the presence of his fellow-creatures, he sees 
more clearly his sins, which otherwise would be hidden from 
his view; just as, on the contrary, the sight of men affects 
us with shame, and this is, as it were, a veil before our 
eyes, which prevents us from deliberately examining our 
faults. It is, therefore, as if David had said, O Lord, 
since the darkness of the night discovers the conscience 
more fully, all coverings being then taken away, and since, 
at that season, the affections, either good or bad, according 
to men’s inclinations, manifest themselves more freely, when 
there is no person present to witness and pronounce judgment 
upon them; if thou then examinest me, there will be found 
neither disguise nor deceit in my heart.2 Hence we conclude 
how great was David’s integrity, seeing that, when purposely 
and leisurely taking account of his inmost thoughts, he 
presents himself so boldly, to be tried by the judgment of 
God. And he not only declares himself to be innocent of 
outward crimes, but also free from all secret malice. So far 
from .cherishing malicious designs, while he covered them 
over with fair pretences, as his enemies alleged, he protests 
that his words were a frank and undisguised representation 
of what was passing in his heart: My thought shall not pass 
beyond my mouth. Our thought is said to pass beyond our 
mouth when, for the purpose of deceiving, the mind thinks 
differently from what the tongue expresses. The word 77131, 





ee eS ee ee 





“4 
ee P . 
a 3 


oo. 





1 “ Le requerant d’en vouloir estre le juge.”—Fr. 

2 “Tl ne sera trouve desguisement ne fraude quelconque en mon cur,” 
—Fr. 

* This is the sense put ‘pos this last clause by the learned Castellio, 
who translates it thus :—‘t Non deprehendes me aliud in pectore, aliud in 





. makes a breach in, or breaks down a w: 


PSALM XVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 239 


zimmah, which we have translated simply thought, may also 
be taken in a bad sense for deceitful and malicious devices. 


_ 4, As for the works of men, by the word of thy lips. Tnter- 
preters explain this verse in different senses. Some thinking 
that the letter 3, beth, which commonly signifies in or by, is 
taken for against, render it thus: As for the works of men 
which they practise against thy word. But I rather incline 
to the opinion of others who consider that there is here com- 
mended a right judgment of the actions of men which is 
formed according to the rule of the word of God. There 
are some shrewd and ingenious persons who carefully mark 
the works of men, but they do not judge of them according 
to the word of God. What we have as yet said does not, 
however, fully give us the sense of the passage. We must 
still consider what the Psalmist means when he speaks of 
the paths of the destroyer.' Some think he refers to the men 
of his own company, who, if he had not restrained them, 
would have instantly rushed like robbers to commit depreda- 
tion; since being reduced to the greatest distress, and seeing 
no prospect of an alteration to the better in their affairs, they 
were become bold through despair; and we know how sharp a 
spur necessity is in goading men forward in any course. But 
this exposition seems to me to be forced, and therefore I rather 
refer the words to his enemies. Farther, there is a diversity 
of opinion among interpreters with respect to the meaning 
of the word watched or observed. Some understand it in this 
sense, that David had done his duty in strenuously opposing 
outrageous men, and those who were wickedly engaged in 
the work of disturbing the repose and tranquillity of their 
fellow-men.? Others understand it thus, that he was careful 
to distinguish between good and evil, or right and wrong, 


ore habere.” ‘ Thou shalt not find me to have one thing in my breast 
and another in my mouth.” 

1 Or, the paths of the violent. pee of him who, by violent means, 

; or fence, the word y»2, pharits, 

being derived from y», pharats, to break down, or break through. It is 


— by Calvin to the violent and wicked conduct of his enemies towards 


# “ De troubler le repos et la tranquillite des autres.”"—Fr. 


240 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVII. 


that he might not be corrupted by bad examples,’ but avoid 
them, and, on the contrary, practise those things which he 
saw to be agreeable to the word of God. But David, I have 
no doubt, had a different meaning, and intended to declare, 
that although wicked and malicious men provoked him to 
evil, he had, nevertheless, been always restrained by the 
word of God, so that he kept himself from exercising violence 
and inflicting injuries, or from rendering evil for evil.2 He 
therefore tells us, that whatever may have been the works of 


men, he had been always so devoted to the word of God, 


and so hung, as it were, upon his mouth, that he could not 
think of allowing himself, when provoked by the injuries his 
enemies inflicted on him, to act towards them as they acted 
towards him. We know how severe a temptation it is, and 
how difficult to overcome, to disregard the manner in which 
men behave themselves towards us, and to consider only 
what God forbids or commands us. Even those who are 
naturally inclined to gentleness and humanity,*® who desire 
to do good to all men, and wish to hurt nobody, whenever 
they are provoked, burst forth into a revengeful mood, 
carried away by a blind impetuosity; especially when we 
see all right and equity overthrown, the confusion so blinds 
us, that we begin to howl with the wolves. If, there- 
fore, we would have a good rule for governing ourselves, 
when our enemies, by their mischievous actions, provoke us 
to treat them ina similar manner, let us learn, after the 
example of David, to meditate upon the word of God, and to 
keep our eyes fixed upon it. By this means our minds will 
be preserved from ever being blinded, and we shall always 
avoid the paths of wickedness, seeing God will not only keep 
our affections under restraint by his commandments, but 
will also train them to patience by his promises. He with- 
holds us from doing evil to our neighbours,‘ not only by for- 
bidding us, but by declaring, at the same time, that he will 


1 «¢ Afin de n’estre point corrompu par mauvais exemples.”—Fr. 

2 “ T have kept me from the paths, &c., or observed the paths, viz., so as to 
avoid them.”—Poole’s Annotations. 

8 « Car mesme ceux qui sont de nature enclins & debonnairete.”—Fr. 

4 * De mal faire & nos prochains.”—Fr. 





‘ 
{ 


PSALM XVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 241 


take into his own hand the execution of vengeance on those 
who injure us,' he admonishes us to “ give place unto wrath,” 


(Rom. xii. 19.) 


5. Uphold my steps in thy paths, that the soles of my feet may 
not slide. 

6. Ihave called upon thee, surely thou wilt hear me, 0 God; 
incline thine ear unto me, and hear my words. 


5. Uphold my steps. If we take God’s paths for the pre- 
cepts of his law, the sense will be evident, namely, that 
although Dayid had spoken according to truth, in boasting 
of haying, in the midst of the most grievous temptations 
which assailed him, constantly practised righteousness with a 
pure heart, yet, conscious of his own weakness, he commits 
himself to God to be governed by him, and prays for grace 
to enable him to persevere. His language is as if he had 
said, Since hitherto, under thy guidance, I have proceeded 
onward in the right path, I beseech thee, in like manner, to 
keep my steps from sliding with respect to the time to come. 
And certainly the more any one excels in grace,? the more 
ought he to be afraid of falling; for it is the usual policy of 
Satan to endeavour, even from the virtue and strength which 
God has given us,* to produce in us carnal confidence which 
may induce carelessness. I do not altogether reject this 
sense, but I think it more probable that David here beseeches 
God to bring his affairs to a prosperous issue, however dark 
the aspect of matters was at present. The import of his 
language is this, Lord, since thou seest that I walk in up- 
rightness and sincerity of heart, govern thou me in such a 
manner as to make all men see that thou art my protector 
and guardian, and leave me not to be cast down at the will 
of my enemies. Thus, by the paths of the Lord, he will mean 
not the doctrine by which our life is regulated, but the power 
by which God upholds .us, and the protection by which he 
preserves us. And he addresses God in this manner, not 
only because all events are in his hand, but because when he 

a Qu’il prendra en main la vengence contre ceux qui nous outragent.” 

2 Et de faict, selon qu’un sg 00 rece wc de graces."—Fr. “ And 


certainly the more grace any one has receiv 
3 “ De la vertu et force que Dieu nous aura donnee.”—Fr. 


VOL. I. Q 


242 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVII. 


takes care of us all things in our lot go on prosperously. 
When he adds, that the soles of my feet may not slide, he refers 
to the many adverse events which threaten us every moment, 
and to the danger we are in of perishing, if not sustained by 
the hand of God. 


6. I have called upon thee, §c. This verb being put in the 
past tense denotes a continued act; and, therefore, it 
includes the present time. The Hebrew word *5, hi, which we 
translate surely, often signifies because, and if it is so under- 
stood in this passage, the meaning will be, that David took 
encouragement to pray, because, depending upon the promise 
of God, he hoped that his prayers would not bein vain. But, 
perhaps, it may be thought preferable to change the tense of 
the verb as some do, so as to give this meaning, I will pray, 
because I have hitherto experienced that thou hast heard' my 
prayers. I have, however, chosen the exposition what 
appears to me the more simple. David, in my judgment, 
here encourages and animates himself to call upon God, from 
the confident hope of being heard, as if he had said, Since I call 
upon thee, surely, O God, thou wilt not despise my prayers. 
Immediately after he beseeches God to bestow upon him the 
blessings of which he told us he entertained an assured hope. 


7. Make marvellous thy mercies, O thou preserver of those 
who trust [in thee,’] from those that exalt themselves against 
thy right hand. 

8. Keep me as the apple, the daughter of the eye ;° hide me in 
the shadow of thy wings. 

9. From the face of the ungodly, who go about to destroy me ; 
and of mine enemies, who besiege [or encompass] my soul. 


7. Make marvellous thy mercies. As the word nbpn, 


1 The Septuagint renders the verb in the past tense, * Exnxoveas wou,” 
‘* Thou hast heard me.” The Syriac and Vulgate give a similar ren- 
dering. ‘The verb, in the Hebrew, is in the future; but it is a common 
er) Hebrew to use the future tense for the past. 

* These words are supplementary. ‘ 

5 “ The apple, [or pupil,) the daughter of the eye, is the literal rendering 
of the Hebrew words, and thus they very powerfully set forth the beauti- 
ful image contained in them. Allusion is ate made to the extreme care 
requisite for the preservation of so delicate an organ asthe eye. Compare 
Prov. vii 2.”"—French and Skinner's Translation of the Book of Psalms. 





—— | 


PSALM XVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 243 


haphileh, signifies sometimes to make wonderful, or remarkable, 
and sometimes to separate and set apart, both these senses 
will be very suitable to this passage. In Psalm xxxi. 19, 
the “ goodness” of God is said to be “laid up” in store as a 
peculiar treasure “for them that fear him,” that he may 
bring it forth at the proper season, even when they are 


brought to an extremity, and when all things seem to be 


desperate. If, then, the translation, separate and set apart thy 
mercy, is preferred, the words are a prayer that God would 
display towards his servant David the special grace which 
he communicates to none but his chosen ones. While God 
involves both the good and the bad in danger indiscrimi- 
nately, he at length shows, by the different issue of things, in 
regard to the two classes, that he does not confusedly mingle 
the chaff and the wheat together, seeing he gathers his 
own people into a company by themselves, (Matth. iii. 12, 
and xxv. 32.) I, however, prefer following another exposi- 
tion. David, in my judgment, perceiving that he could only 
be delivered from the perilous circumstances in which he 
was placed by singular and extraordinary means, betakes 
himself to the wonderful or miraculous power of God. Those 
who think he desires God to withhold his grace from his pers 
secutors do too great violence to the scope of the passage. 
By this circumstance there is expressed the extreme danger 
to which David was exposed; for otherwise it would have 
been enough for him to have been succoured in the ordinary 
and common way in which God is accustomed daily to 
fayour and to aid his own people. The grievousness of his 
distress, therefore, constrained him to beseech God to work 
miraculously for his deliverance. The title with which he 
here honours God, O thou preserver of those who trust | in thee, | 
serves to confirm him in the certain hope of obtaining his 
requests. As God takes upon him the charge of saving all 
who confide in him, David being one of their number, could 
upon good ground assure himself of safety and deliverance. 
Whenever, therefore, we approach God, let the first thought 
impressed on our minds be, that as he is not in vain called 
the preserver of those who trust in him, we have no reason 
whatever to be afraid of his not being ready to succour us, 


244 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVII. 


provided our faith Continue firmly to rely upon his grace. 
And if every way of deliverance is shut up, let us also at the 
same time remember that he is possessed of wonderful and 
inconceivable means of succouring us, which serve so much 
the more conspicuously to magnify and manifest his power. 
But as the participle trusting, or hoping, is put without any 
additional word expressing the object of this trust or hope,* 
some interpreters connect it with the last words of the verse, 
thy right hand, as if the order of the words were inverted. 
They, therefore, resolve them thus, O thou preserver of those 
who trust in thy right hand, from those who rise up against 
them. As this, however, is harsh and strained, and the expo- 
sition which I have given is more natural, and more generally 
received,’ let us follow it. To express, therefore, the mean- 
ing in one sentence, the Psalmist attributes to God the office 
of defending and preserving his own people from all the 
ungodly who rise up to assault them, and who, if it were in 
their power, would destroy them. And the ungodly are here 
said to exalt themselves against the hand of God, because, in 
molesting the faithful whom God has taken under his pro- 
tection, they openly wage war against him. The doctrine 
contained in these words, namely, that when we are molested, 
an outrage is committed upon God in our person, is a very 
profitable one; for having once declared himself to be the 
guardian and protector of our welfare, whenever we are un- 
justly assailed, he puts forth his hand before us as a shield of 
defence. 

The two similitudes which David has subjoined in the 
following verse, respecting the apple of the eye, and the little 
birds which the mother keeps under her wings,’ are intro- 
duced for illustrating the same subject. God, to express the 
great care which he has of his own people, compares himself 
to a hen and other fowls, which spread out their wings to 
cherish and cover their young, and declares them to be no 
less dear to him than the apple of the eye, which is the 

’ Poole observes, that the Hebrew phrase for “‘ them which trust,” 
might be properly rendered without any supplement, ‘‘ believers.” 

Calvin’s rendering is the same as that of the Septuagint, Vulgate, and 


Syriac versions. 
3 “ Et des petis oiseaux que la mere tient sous ses ailes.”—Fr. 








PSALM XVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 245 


tenderest part of the body, is to man; it follows, therefore, 
that whenever men rise up to molest and injure the righteous, 
war is waged against him. As this form of prayer was put 
into the mouth of David by the Holy Spirit, it is to be 
regarded as containing in it a promise. We have here pre- 
sented to our contemplation a singular and an astonishing 
proof of the goodness of God, in humbling himself so far, 
and in a manner so to speak, transforming himself, in order 
to lift up our faith above the conceptions of the flesh. 


9. From the face of the ungodly. The Psalmist, by again 
accusing his enemies, intends to set forth his own innocence, 
as an argument for his obtaining the favour of God. At the 
same time, he complains of their cruelty, that God may be 
the more inclined to aid him. First, he says that they burn 
with an enraged desire to waste and to destroy him; secondly, 
he adds, that they besiege him in his soul, by which he means, 
that they would never rest satisfied until they had accom- 
plished his death. The greater, therefore, the terror with 
which we are stricken by the cruelty of our enemies, the 
more ought we to be quickened to ardour in prayer. God, 
indeed, does not need to receive information and incitement 
from us; but the use and the end of prayer is, that the 
faithful, by freely declaring to God the calamities and sorrows 
which oppress them, and in disburdening them, ‘as it were, 
into his bosom, may be assured beyond all doubt that he 
has a regard to their necessities. 


10. They have inclosed themselves in their own fat, they have 
spoken proudly with their mouth. 

ll. They have now compassed me round about in our steps ; they 
have fixed their eyes to cast down to the ground. 

12. The likeness of him is as a lion that desireth to tear in pieces, 
and as a lion's whelp which lurketh in secret places. 


10. They have inclosed themselves in their own fat. If the 


1 Houbigant and Kennicott read m2 sn sby, “* They have closed their 
net upon me.” Horsley and Fry adopt this reading. ‘* But,” says 
Rogers, ‘it receives no support from the ancient versions or MSS.” 


246 COMMENTARY UPON - PSALM XVII. 


translation which is given by others is considered preferable, 
They have inclosed their own fat, the meaning will be quite 
the same. Some Jewish interpreters explain the words thus: 
that being stuffed with fat, and their throat being, as it were, 
choked with it, they were unable to speak freely; but this 
is a very meagre and unsatisfactory exposition. By the 
word fat, I think, is denoted the pride with which they were 
filled and swollen, as it were, with fatness. It is a very 
appropriate and expressive metaphor to represent them as 
having their hearts choked up with pride, in the manner in 
which corpulent persons are affected from the fat within 
them.' David complains of their being puffed up with their 
wealth and pleasures, and accordingly we see the ungodly, the 
more luxuriously they are pampered, conducting themselves 
the more outrageously and proudly. But I think there is 
described by the word fat an inward vice, namely, their 
being inclosed on all sides with arrogance and presumption, 
and their haying become utter strangers to every feeling of 
humanity.?- The Psalmist next declares that this is abun- 
dantly manifested in their language. In short, his meaning 
is, that inwardly they swell with pride, and that they take 
no pains to conceal it, as appears from the high swelling 
words to which they give utterance. When it is said, They 
have spoken proudly with their mouth, the word mouth is not 
a pleonasm, as it often is in other places; for David means, 
that with mouths widely opened they pour forth scornful 


ny Comme les gens replets se trouvent saisis de leur graisse au dedans.” 
—Fr. 


‘“‘ The sacred writers employ this term [fat] to signify a body peret 
to excess by luxury and self-indul nce, Pe {ios 73 cxix. 70, Jo XV. 
27.”—French and Skinner’s Translation of the Book of Psalms. ‘There 
may no doubt be a reference to the personal appearance and sensual indul- 
ence of David’s enemies. But something more is implied. ‘* We know 
that in the figurative language of Scripture fatness denotes pride. This 
connection of ideas is still maintained in the East, where, when it is 
intended to indicate a proud man, he is said to be fat, or to look fat, whether 
really so or not.”-——ZJllustrated Commentary upon the Bible. 
* Dr Geddes translates the clause, ‘‘ Their hearts have they hardened.” 
‘* Literally,” says he, “ they have closed their midriff;—shut out all 
compassion from their hearts.” The Hebrew word which is rendered fat 
is explained by Gesenius, when used figuratively, as-denoting a fat, that is, 
an unfeeling heart. 





PSALM XVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 247 


and contemptuous language, which bears testimony to the 
pride which dwells within them. 


11. They have now compassed me round about in our steps. 
The Psalmist confirms what he has said before concerning 
the furious passion for doing mischief with which his enemies 
were inflamed. He says they were so cruelly bent on 
accomplishing his destruction, that in whatever way he 
directed or altered his course, they ceased not to follow close 
upon him. When he says our steps, he doubtless compre- 
hends his own companions, although he immediately after 
returns to speak of himself alone; unless, perhaps, another 
reading is preferred, for some copies have }}\33D, sebabunu, 
They have compassed us, in the plural number. This, however, 
is not a matter of great importance. David simply com- 
plains, that unless God stretch forth his hand from heaven 
to deliver him, there now remains for him no way of escape, 
seeing his enemies, whenever he stirs his foot to avoid their 
fury, immediately pursue him, and watch all his steps. By 
the adverb now, he intimates not only that he is at present 
in very great danger, but also that at every moment his 
enemies, in whatever way he turns himself, pursue and press 
hard upon him. In the last clause, They have fixed their eyes 
to cast down to the ground, some consider David as comparing 
his enemies to hunters, who, with eyes fixed on the ground, 
are silently looking with eager desire for their prey. They, 
therefore, think that by the eyes fixed on the ground is 
denoted the gesture or attitude of David’s adversaries, and 
certainly crafty and malicious men have their countenance 
often fixed on the ground. According to others, whose 
opinion is nearer the spirit of the passage, this form of 
expression signifies the continual and unwearied ardour by 
which the ungodly are impelled to turn all things upside 
down. To fix their eyes, therefore, is nothing else than to 
apply all their ingenuity, and put forth all their efforts. 
What follows, to cast down to the ground, is the same thing 
as to overthrow. The ungodly, as if they must necessarily 
fall, should the world continue to stand, would wish all 





248 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVII, 


mankind thrown down or destroyed, and, therefore, they 
exert themselves to the utmost to bring down and ruin all 
men. This is explained more fully by the figurative illustra- 
tion introduced in the following verse, where they are said 
to be like lions and lions’ whelps.| But we ought always to 
keep this truth in remembrance, that the more proudly 
wicked men exercise their cruelty against us, the hand of 
God is so much the nearer to us to oppose itself to their 
savage fury; for to him alone belongs the praise of subduing 
and restraining these wild beasts who delight in shedding 
blood. David speaks of dens, or secret lurking places, because 
his enemies were deeply skilled in artful stratagem, and had 
various methods of doing mischief, while they had also at 
hand the power and means of executing them, so that it was 
difficult to resist them. 


13. Arise, O Jehovah, prevent [or go before] his face, lay him 
prostrate on the ground ;? deliver my soul from the un- 
godly man by thy sword : 

14. From men by thy hand, O Jehovah, from men who are of long 
duration, [or who are from an age,*| whose portion is in life, 
whose belly thou fillest with thy secret goods ; their children 
are filled with them, and they leave the rest to their babes. 


13. Arise, O Jehovah. The more furiously David was 
persecuted by his enemies, he beseeches God the more 
earnestly to afford him immediate aid; for he uses the word 
face to denote the swift impetuosity of his adversary, to 
repress which there was need of the greatest haste. By 
these words, the Holy Spirit teaches us, that when death 


1 In the French version it is ‘* lionceaux,” “* young lions.” French and 
Skinner read “ like a lion,” and “ like a young lion ;” and observe, “ The 
word translated ‘ young lion’ signifies a lion in the vigour of youth, and 
fully capable of pursuing his prey.” 

2“ The LXX. have happily expressed the exact import of the Hebrew 
word, ‘‘Yao¢ xeAscov abrovs,’ ‘ Make him sink upon his knees.’”—Horsley. 
Street reads, ‘‘ Make them bend.” Cocceius renders it, “ Incurva illum,” 
‘* Bend him,” and explains the phrase thus :—“ Fac, ut se demittat,” &e. ; 
i.e. Make him to cast himself down, bend his stature, which is erect and 
inflexible like iron; that is to say, take away from him the power and the 
inclination of doing mischief.” 

3 “A seculo."—Lat. ‘‘ Dés un monde, ou un siecle.”—Fr. marg. 
“ From a world, or an age.” 


P 


. 
_ PSALM XVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 249 
shows itself to be just at hand, God is provided with 
_ remedies perfectly prepared, by which he can effect our 
_ deliverance in a moment. The Psalmist not only attri- 
butes to God the office of delivering his people; he at 
the same time arms him with power to crush and break 
im pieces the wicked. He does not, however, wish them 
to be cast down farther than was necessary to their being 
humbled, that they might cease from their outrageous and 
injurious conduct towards him, as we may gather from the 
following clause, where he again beseeches God to deliver 
his soul. David would have been contented to see them 
continuing in the possession of their outward ease and pros- 
perity, had they not abused their power by practising 
injustice and cruelty. Let us know then, that God consults 
the good of his people when he overthrows the ungodly, 
and breaks their strength; when he does this, it is for the 
purpose of delivering from destruction the poor inno- 
cents who are molested by these wretched men.1 Some 
expositors read the passage thus, From the ungodly man, who 
is thy sword,’ and also, From the men who are thy hand; but 
this does not seem to me to bea proper translation. I admit, 
that from whatever quarter afflictions come to us, it is the 
- hand of God which chastises us, and that the ungodly are 
the scourges he employs for this purpose; and farther, that 
this consideration is very well fitted to lead us to exercise 
patience. But as this manner of speaking would here be 
somewhat harsh, and, at the same time, not very consistent 
with the prayer, I prefer adopting the exposition which re- 


1 Qui sont molestez par ces malheureux.”—Fr. 
_ * “It may be questioned whether David, in this or the next clause, 
intended to represent wicked men as the sword and the hand of God; that 
is, the instruments which he employed to correct his servants ; or whether 
his meaning was to pray that God would interpose his own hand and 
sword to defend him and punish his enemies. The latter sense is adopted 
by some interpreters ; but as the former is a perfectly Scriptural sentiment, 
and requires the supposition of no ellipsis, it ap to me to be most 
likely what is intended. Vide Isa. x. 5.”"—-Walford. Many of the most 
eminent critics, however, adopt the translation which Calvin has given, as 
Hammond, Houbigant, Ainsworth, Bishops Lowth, Horsley, Horne, and 
Hare, Dr wei he Dr Adam Clarke, Dathe, and Venema. The read- 
ing in Tyndale’s Bible is, “‘ Deliver my soul with thy sword from the 
_ungodly.’ 


250 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVII. _ 


presents David’s words as a prayer that God would deliver 
him by his sword, and smite with his hand those men who, 
for too long a time, had been in possession of power and — 
prosperity. He contrasts God’s sword with human aids and _ 
human means of relief; and the import of his words is, — 
If God himself does not come forth to take vengeance, — 
and draw his sword, there remains for me no hope of deliver- 
ance. 


14. From men by thy hand, O Jehovah, from men who are — 
from an age. I connect these words thus: O Lord, deliver 
me by thy hand, or by thy heavenly aid, from men; I say 
from men whose tyranny has prevailed too long, and whom 
thou hast suffered to wallow too long in the filth and draff — 
of their prosperity. This repetition is very emphatic; 
David's voice being stifled, as it were, with the indignation — 
which he felt at seeing such villany continuing for so long — 
a period, he stops all at once after uttering the first word, 
without proceeding farther in the sentence which he meant 
to express; then, after having recovered his breath, he — 
declares what it is that so greatly distressed him. In the — 
preceding verse he had spoken in the singular number; but 
now he gives us to understand that he had not only one 
enemy but many, and that those who were set against him — 
were strong and powerful, so that he saw no hope of deliver- — 
ance remaining for him except in the aid of God. 7 

These words, from world, or age, (for such is the exact 
literal rendering,') are expounded in different ways. Some 
understand them as meaning men who have their time, as if 
David intended to say that their prosperous condition would — 
not be of long duration; but this does not appear to me 
to be the proper explanation. Others suppose he means by — 
this expression such as are wholly devoted to the world, and _ 
whose whole attention and thoughts are absorbed in the © 
things of earth; and, according to their opinion, Dayid com- 
pares his enemies to brute beasts. In the same sense they — 
explain what follows immediately after, Their portion is in 


1 “ Ou siecle car il y a ainsi mot & mot.”—Fr. a 





PSALM XVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 251 


‘Life, language which they consider as applied to them, because, 
being entirely destitute of the Spirit, and cleaving with their 
whole hearts to transitory good things, they think of nothing 
better than this world. For that in which each man places 
liis felicity is termed his portion. As, however, the Hebrew 
word “}9M, cheled, signifies an age, or the course of a man’s 
life, David, I doubt not, complains that his enemies had 
lived and enjoyed prosperity longer than the ordinary term 
allotted to the life of man. The audacity and the outrages’ 
committed by wicked men might be borne with for a short 
time, but when they wax wanton against God, it is very 
strange indeed to see them continuing stable in their pros- 
perous condition. That this is the sense appears from the 
preposition }f, min, which we have translated from, by which 
David expresses that they were not sprung up only a few 
days before or lately, but that their prosperity, which should 
have vanished away in a moment, had lasted for a very long 
time. Such, then, is the meaning of the Psalmist, unless, 
perhaps, we may. understand him as denominating them 
of the world, or age, because they bear the chief authority 
among men, and are exalted in honours and riches, as if this 
world had been made for them alone. 

When he says, Their portion is in life, I explain it as mean- 
ing that they are exempted from all troubles, and abound in 
pleasures ; in short, that they do not experience the common 
condition of other men; as, on the contrary, when a man is 
oppressed with adversities, it is said of him that his portion 
is in death. David therefore intimates, that it is not a 
reasonable thing that the ungodly should be permitted to 
gad about in joy and gaiety without having any fear of 
death, and to claim for themselves, as if by hereditary 
right, a peaceful and happy life. 

What he adds immediately after, Whose belly thou fillest with 
thy secret goods, is of the same import. We see these persons 
not only enjoying, in common with other men, light, breath, 
food, and all other commodities of life, but we also see God 
often treating them more delicately and more bountifully 


) “ L’audace et les outrages.”—Fr. 


252 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVII. 


than others, as if he fed them on his lap, holding them ten- 
derly like little babes, and fondling them more than all the 
rest of mankind.’ Accordingly, by the secret goods of God, 
we are here to understand the rare and more exquisite 
dainties which he bestows upon them. Now, this is a severe 
temptation, if a man estimates the love and favour of God 
by the measure of earthly prosperity which he bestows; and, 
therefore, it is not to be wondered at, though David was 
greatly afflicted in contemplating the prosperous condition 
of ungodly men. But let us remember that he makes this 
holy complaint to console himself, and to mitigate his distress, _ 
not in the way of murmuring against God and resisting his 
will ;—let us remember this, I say, that, after his example, we 
may learn also to direct our groanings to heaven. Some 
give a more subtle exposition of what is here called God’s 
secret goods, viewing it as meaning the good things which the 
ungodly devour without thinking of or regarding him who > 
is the author of them; or they suppose the good things of 
God to be called secret, because the reason why God pours 
them forth so abundantly upon the wicked is not apparent. 
But the exposition which I have given, as it is both simple 
and natural, so of itself it sufficiently disproves the others. 
The last point in this description is, that, by continual suc- 
cession, these persons transmit their riches to their children 
and their children’s children. As they are not among the 
number of the children of God, to whom this blessing is 
promised, it follows, that when they are thus fattened, it is 
for the day of slaughter which he hath appointed. The 
object which David therefore has in view in making this 
complaint is, that God would make haste to execute ven- 
geance, secing they have so long abused his liberality and 
gentle treatment. 


! « Comme s'il les nourissoit en son giron, les tenant tendrement et 
mignardant plus que tout le reste.”—Fr. 





PSALM XVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 253 


15. But as for me, I shall behold thy face in righteousness : I 
shall be satisfied, when I shall awake, with thy image, [or 
likeness. | 


Having with anguish of heart declared before God the 
troubles which afflicted and tormented him, that he might not 
be overwhelmed with the load of temptations which pressed 
upon him, he now takes, as it were, the wings of faith, and 
rises up to a region of undisturbed tranquillity, where he may 
behold all things arranged and directed in due order. In 
the first place, there is here a tacit comparison between the 
well regulated state of things which will be. seen when God 
by his judgment shall restore to order those things which 
are now embroiled and confused, and the deep and distress- 
ing darkness which is in the world, when God keeps silence, 
and hides his face. In the midst of those afflictions which 
he has recounted, the Psalmist might seem to be plunged 
in darkness from which he would never obtain deliverance.! 
When we see the ungodly enjoying prosperity, crowned with 
honours, and loaded with riches, they seem to be in great 
fayour with God. But David triumphs over their proud and 
presumptuous boasting; and although, to the eye of sense 
and reason, God has cast him off, and removed him far from 
him, yet he assures himself that one day he will enjoy the 
privilege of familiarly beholding him. The pronoun J is 
emphatic, as if he had said, The calamities and reproaches 
which I now endure will not prevent me from again experi- 
encing fulness of joy from the fatherly love of God manifested 
towards me. We ought carefully to observe, that David, in 
order to enjoy supreme happiness, desires nothing more than 
to have always the taste and experience of this great bless- 
ing that God is reconciled to him. The wicked may imagine 
themselves to be happy, but so long as God is opposed to 
them, they deceive themselves in indulging this imagination. 
To behold God’s face, is nothing else than to have a sense of his 
fatherly favour, with which he not only causes us to rejoice by 


1 “ PDesquelles il n’y eust issue aucune.”—Fr. 


254 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVI. 


removing our sorrows, but also transports us even to heaven. 
By the word righteousness, David means that he will not be 
disappointed of the reward of a good conscience. As long as 
God humbles his people under manifold afflictions, the world 
insolently mocks at their simplicity, as if they deceived them- 
selves, and lost their pains in devoting themselves to the 
cultivation and practice of purity and innocence! Against 
such kind of mockery and derision David is here struggling, 
and in opposition to it he assures himself that there is a 
recompense laid up for his godliness and uprightness, pro- 
vided he continue to persevere in his obedience to the holy 
law of God; as Isaiah, in like manner, (chap. iii, 10,) exhorts 
the faithful to support themselves from this consideration, 
that “ it shall be well with the righteous: for they shall eat 
the fruit of their doings.” We ought not, however, from 
this to think that he represents works as the cause of his 
salvation. It is not his purpose to treat of what constitutes 
the meritorious ground upon which he is to be received into 
the favour of God. He only lays it down as a principle, that 
they who ‘serve God do not lose their labour, for although 
he may hide his face from them for a time, he causes them 
again in due season to behold his bright countenance? and 


compassionate eye beaming upon them. 


I shall be satisfied. Some interpreters, with more subtlety _ 


than propriety, restrict this to the resurrection at the last 
day, as if David did not expect to experience in his heart 
a blessed joy*® until the life to come, and suspended every 
longing desire after it until he should attain to that life. I 
readily admit that this satisfaction of which he speaks will 
not in all respects be perfect before the last coming of 
Christ ; but as the saints, when God causes some rays of the 
knowledge of his love to enter into their hearts, find great 
enjoyment in the light thus communicated, David justly calls — 
this peace or joy of the Holy Spirit satisfaction. The un- 


1 “ Comme s’ils s’abusoyent et perdoyent leurs peines en s’adonnant & 


purete et innocence.”—Fr. ue 
2 « T] Jui fait tousjours derechef contempler finalment son clair visage 


et son ceil debonnaire.”—Fr. ; : . 
8 “ Comme si David remettoit & la vie & venir l'esperance de sentir en 


son ceeur une joye heureuse.”—/r, 





PSALM XVII. ‘THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 255 


godly may be at their ease, and have abundance of good 
things, even to bursting, but as their desire is insatiable, or 
as they feed upon wind, in other words, upon earthly things, 
without tasting spiritual things, in which there is substance, 
or being so stupified through the pungent remorse of con- 
science with which they are tormented, as not to enjoy the 
good things which they possess, they never have composed 
and tranquil minds, but are kept unhappy by the inward 
passions with which they are perplexed and agitated. It 
is therefore the grace of God alone which can give us 
contentment,’ and prevent us from being distracted by irre- 
gular desires. David, then, I have no doubt, has here an 
allusion to the empty joys of the world, which only famish 
the soul, while they sharpen and increase the appetite the 
more,® in order to show that those only are partakers of 
true and substantial happiness who seek their felicity in the 
enjoyment of God alone. As the literal rendering of the 
Hebrew words is, J shall be satisfied in the awaking of thy face, 
or, in awaking by thy face; some, preferring the first exposi- 
tion, understand by the awaking of God’s face the breaking 
forth, or manifestation of the light of his grace, which before 
was, as it were, covered with clouds. But to me it seems 
more suitable to refer the word awake to David,‘ and to view 
it as meaning the same thing as to obtain respite from his 
_ sorrow. David had never indeed been overwhelmed with 
stupor; but after a lengthened period of fatigue, through the 
_ persecution of his enemies, he must needs have been brought 
into such a state as to appear sunk into a profound sleep. 
The saints do not sustain and repel all the assaults which 
are made upon them so courageously as not, by reason of 


1  C’est & dire de choses terriennes, sans gouster les choses spirituelles 
eoqnelles il y a fermete.”—Fr, 

* Qui nous puisse donner contentement.”—Fr. 

% “ Lesquelles ne font qu’affamer et augmenter tousjours tout plus 
it.”—Frr. 

The Chaldee version applies it to David, and reads, “ When I shall 
awake, I arg ary Yew: the glory rd thy countenance.” But the 
Septuagint, the te, ic, and Athiopic versions apply the verb 
awake to thy glory. “Ev re 6Qenvas tny dofav cov,” “ At the appearin of 
thy glory,” says the Septuagint. “ Cum apparuerit gloria tua,” ‘“ When 
thy glory shall appear,” says the Vulgate. 


256 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII, 


the weakness of their flesh, to feel languid and feeble for a 
time, or to be terrified, as if they were enveloped in dark- 
ness. David compares this perturbation of mind to asleep. 
But when the favour of God shall again have arisen and 
shone brightly upon him, he declares that then he will — 
recover spiritual strength and enjoy tranquillity of mind, — 
It is true, indeed, as Paul declares, that so long as we 
continue in this state of earthly pilgrimage, “ we walk by — 
faith, not by sight;” but as we nevertheless behold the 
image of God not only in the glass of the gospel, but alsoin 
the numerous evidences of his grace which he daily exhibits 
to us, let each of us awaken himself from his lethargy, that 
we may now be satisfied with spiritual felicity, until God, 
in due time, bring us to his own immediate presence, and 
cause us to enjoy him face to face. 


PSALM XVIII. 


We all know through what difficulties and almost insurmountable obstacles _ 
David came to the kingdom. Even to the time of Saul’s death he was __ 
a fugitive, and, as it were, an outlaw, and wearily passed his life in 
fear, amidst many threatenings and dangers of death. After God had, 
with his own hand, placed him on the royal throne, he was immediately 
harassed with the tumults and insurrections of his own subjects, and 
the hostile faction being superior to him in power, he was often at 
the point of being completely overthrown. Foreign enemies, on the 
other hand, severely tried him even to his old age. These calamities — 
he would never have surmounted had he not been aided by the power 
of God. Having therefore obtained many and signal victories, he does 
not, as irreligious men are accustomed to do, sing a song of triumph — 
in honour of himself, but exalts and magnifies God the author of these 
victories, by a train of striking and appropriate epithets, and in a style 
of surpassing grandeur and sublimity. This psalm, therefore, is the first 
of those psalms in which David celebrates, in lofty strains, the won- 
derful grace which God had shown towards him, both in putting him 
in possession of the kingdom, and in afterwards maintaining him in it. 
He also shows that his reign was an image and type of the kingdom 3 
of Christ, to teach and assure the faithful that Christ, in spite of the — 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 257 


_ whole world, and of all the resistance which it can make, will, by the 

_ stupendous and incomprehensible power of the Father, be always 
victorious. 

¥ To the chief musician of David, the servant of Jehovah, who sung to 
Jehovah the words of this song in the day that Jehovah delivered 
him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. 


WE ought carefully to mark the particular time when this 
psalm was composed, as it shows us that David, when his 
affairs were brought to a state of peace and prosperity, was 
not intoxicated with extravagant joy like irreligious men, 
who, when they have obtained deliverance from their cala- 
mities, shake off from their minds the remembrance of God’s 
benefits, and plunge themselves into gross and degrading 
pleasures, or erect their crests, and obscure the glory of God 
by their proud and vain boasting. David, as the sacred 
history relates, (2 Sam. xxii.,) sung this song to the Lord, 
when he was now almost spent with age, and when, being 
delivered from all his troubles, he enjoyed tranquillity. The 
inscription here agrees with that account, and, from what is 
there stated, we conclude, that it has not been improperly or 
incorrectly prefixed to this psalm. David points out the 
time when it was sung, namely, after God had delivered him 
Srom all his enemies, to show us that he was then in perfectly 
quiet possession of his kingdom, and that God had assisted 
him not once, nor against one kind of enemies only; seeing 
his conflicts were from time to time renewed, and the end of 
one war was the commencement of another; yea, many 
armies often rose up against him at the same time. Since 
the creation of the world, we will scarcely find another indi- 
vidual in it whom God has tried by so many and so varied 
afflictions. As Saul had persecuted him with more cruelty, 
and with greater fury and determination than all others, his 
name on that account is here expressly mentioned, although, 
in the preceding clause,-the Psalmist had spoken in general 
terms of all his enemies. Saul is not put last, as if he had 
been one of his later enemies,’ for his death had taken place 

1 “Car il ne faut penser qu'il soit mis en dernier lieu, comme 
celuy dont il fust plus fresche memoire, que de tous les autres."—Fr. “ It 
is not necessary to suppose that Saul is put last, as he of whom he 


retained a fresher remembrance than of all his other enemies.” 
VOL. I. R 


258 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


about thirty years previous to this time; and since that event 
David had discomfited many foreign enemies, dnd had also 
suppressed the rebellion of his own son Absalom. But, 
persuaded that it was a singular manifestation of the grace 
of God towards him, and eminently worthy of being 
remembered, that he had for so many years escaped from 
innumerable deaths, or rather that as many days as he 
had lived under the reign of Saul, God had wrought, as 
it were, so many miracles for his deliverance, he justly 
mentions and celebrates in particular his deliverance from 
the hands of this relentless enemy. By calling himself 
the servant of God, he doubtless intended to bear testi- 
mony to his call to be king, as if he had said, I have not 
rashly, and by my own authority, usurped the kingdom, but 
have only acted in obedience to the oracle of heaven. And, 
indeed, amidst the many storms which he had to encounter, 
it was a support highly necessary to be well assured in his own 
mind of having undertaken nothing but by the appointment 
of God; or rather, this was to him a peaceful haven, and a 
secure retreat in the midst of so many broils and strange cala- 
mities.!_ There is not a more wretched object than man in 
adversity, when he has brought himself into distress by acting 
according to the mere impulse of his own mind, and not by 
acting in obedience to the call of God. David, therefore, 
had a good reason for wishing it to be known that it was 
not ambition which impelled him to enter into those contests 
which were so painful and difficult for him to bear, and that 
he had not attempted any thing unlawful or by wicked means, 
but had always kept steadily in view the will of God, which 
served as alight to guide him in his path. This is a point 
which it is highly useful for us to know, in order that we 
may not expect to be exempted from all trouble, when we 
follow the call of God, but may rather prepare ourselves for 
a condition of warfare painful and disagreeable to our flesh. 
The name servant, therefore, in this passage, as in many others, 
relates to his public office ; just as when the prophets and 
apostles call themselves the servants of God, they have a 


_ } “ Ou plustost ce luy avoit este un bon port et retraite seure au mi- 
lieu de tant d’esclandres et calamitez estranges.”—Fr. 








PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 259 


reference to their official character. It is as if he had said, I 
am not a king of my own creation, but have been chosen by 
God to fill that high station. At the same time, we ought 
particularly to notice the humility of David, who, although 
distinguished by so many victories, and the conqueror of so 
many nations, and possessed of so great dignity and wealth, 
honours himself with no other title than this, Zhe servant of 
God; as if he meant to show that he accounted it more 
honourable to have faithfully performed the duties of the 
office with which God had invested him, than to possess all 
the honours and excellence of the world. 


1. And he said, Iwill affectionately love thee, O Jehovah, my 
strength, 

2. Jehovah is my rock,? my fortress, and my deliverer ; my God, 
my rock, I will trust in him : my shield, and the horn® of 
my salvation, my refuge. 


1. And he said, §c. I will not stop to examine too 
minutely the syllables, or the few words, in which this 
psalm differs from the song which is recorded in the twenty- 
second chapter of the Second Book of Samuel. When, 
however, we meet with any important difference, we shall 
advert to it in the proper place; and we find one in the 
remarkable sentence with which this psalm commences, J 


1 This is the rendering of the French version. The word in the Hebrew 
text, which is &™, racham, is very expressive. “tm,” says Cocceius, 
* est intime ac medullitus cum motu omnium viscerum ;”—“* is to 
love with the deepest and strongest affections of the heart, with the moving 
of all the bowels.” Ainsworth reads, ‘I will dearly love thee ;” Street, 
* T love thee exceedingly ;” Bisho Horne, “ With all the yearnings of 
affection I will love thee, 0 Jehovah ;” and Dr Adam Clarke, “‘ From my 
inmost bowels will I love thee, O Lord.” ‘The word, therefore, denotes 
the tenderness and intensity of David’s emotions. 

? The Hebrew word literally means a cliff or crag ; and is a different 
word from the one which is translated rock in the following part of this 
verse. ‘ The word ybo, sela,” says Dr Adam Clarke, “ signifies those 
craggy precipices which afforded shelter to men and animals ; where the 
bees often made their nests, and whence honey was collected in 
abundance. ‘He made him to suck honey out of the rock,’ Deut. xxxii. 
13.” 

§ The horn is the emblem of strength and power. The metaphor is 
taken from the bull and other powerful animals, as put forth their strength 
principally by the use of their horns. 


260 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


will love thee affectionately, O Jehovah, my strength, which is 
omitted in the song in Samuel. As the Scripture does not 
use the verb [QM%, racham, for to love, except in the conju- 
gation pihel, and as it is here put in the conjugation hal, 
some of the Jewish expositors explain it as here meaning ¢o 
seek mercy ; as if David had said, Lord, since I have so often 
experienced thee to be a merciful God, I will trust to and 
repose in thy mercies for ever. And certainly this exposi- 
tion would not be unsuitable, but I am unwilling to depart 
from the other, which is more generally received. It is to 
be observed, that love to God is here laid down as con- 
stituting the principal part of true godliness ; for there is no 
better way of serving God than to love him. No doubt, 
the service which we owe him is better expressed by the 
word reverence, that thus his majesty may prominently stand 
forth to our view in its infinite greatness. But as he requires 
nothing so expressly as to possess all the affections of our 
heart, and to have them going out towards him, so there is 
no sacrifice which he values more than when we are bound 
fast to him by the chain of a free and spontaneous love ; 
and, on the other hand, there is nothing in which his glory 
shines forth more conspicuously than in his free and sovereign 
goodness. Moses, therefore, (Deut. x. 12,) when he meant to 
give a summary of the law, says, “ And now, Israel, what 
doth the Lord thy God require of thee but to love him?” In 
speaking thus, David, at the same time, intended to show that 
his thoughts and affections were not so intently fixed upon 
the benefits of God as to be ungrateful to him who was the 
author of them, a sin which has been too common in all 
ages. Even at this day we see how the greater part of 
mankind enjoy wholly at their ease the gifts of God with- 
out paying any regard to him, or, if they think of him at 
all, it is only to despise him. David, to prevent himself 
from falling into this ingratitude, in these words makes as it 
were a solemn vow, Lord, as thou art my strength, I will 
continue united and devoted to thee by unfeigned love. 


2. Jehovah is my rock, &c. When David thus heaps to- 
gether many titles by which to honour God, it is no useless 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 261 


or unnecessary accumulation of words. We know how diffi- 
cult it is for men to keep their minds and hearts stayed in 
God. They either imagine that it is not enough to have 
God for them, and, consequently, are always secking after 
support and succour elsewhere, or, at the first temptation 
which assails them, fall from the confidence which they placed 
in him. David, therefore, by attributing to God various 
methods of saving his people, protests that, provided he has 
God for his protector and defender, he is effectually fortified 
against all peril and assault; as if he had said, Those whom 
God intends to succour and defend are not only safe against 
one kind of dangers, but are as it were surrounded by impreg- 
nable ramparts on all sides, so that, should a thousand 
deaths be presented to their view, they ought not to be 
afraid even at this formidable array.! We see, then, that 
the design of David here is not only to celebrate the praises 
of God, in token of his gratitude, but also to fortify our 
minds with a firm and stedfast faith, so that, whatever afflic- 
tions befall us, we may always have recourse to God, and 
may be fully persuaded that he has virtue and power to 
assist us in different ways, according to the different methods 
of doing us mischief which the wicked devise. Nor, as I 
have observed before, does David insist so much on this 
point, and express the same thing by different terms without 
cause. God may have aided us in one way, and yet whenever 
a new tempest arises, we are immediately stricken with ter- 
ror, as if we had never experienced any thing of his aid. 
And those who in one trouble expect protection and succour 
from him, but who afterwards circumscribe his power, 
accounting it limited in other respects, act like a man who, 
upon going into battle, considers himself well secured as to 
his breast, because he has a breastplate and a shield to 
defend him, and yet is afraid of his head, because he is with- 
out a helmet. David, therefore, here furnishes the faithful 
with a complete suit of armour,’ that they may feel that 


1 “ Comme environnez de bons rempars de tous costez, tellement que 
mille morts, quand autant il s’en presenteroit & eux, ne leur doyvent point 
faire peur.” —Fr. 

# “ Et pourtant David equippe yci les fideles de pied en cav comme on 


262 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


they are in no danger of being wounded, provided they 
are shielded by the power of God. That such is the ob- 
ject he has in view, is apparent from the declaration which 
he makes of his confidence in God: J will trust in him. 
Let us, therefore, learn from his example, to apply to our 
own use those titles which are here attributed to God, and 
to apply them as an antidote against all the perplexities 
and distresses which may assail us; or rather, let them be 
deeply imprinted upon our memory, so that we may be able 
at once to repel to a distance whatever fear Satan may 
suggest to our mind. I give this exhortation, not only 
because we tremble under the calamities with which we are 
presently assailed, but also because we groundlessly conjure 
up in our own imaginations dangers as to the time to come, 
and thus needlessly disquiet ourselves by the mere creations 
of fancy. In the song, as recorded in 2 Sam. xxii. 3, instead 
of these words, My God, my rock, it is, God of my rock. And 
after the word refuge, there is, My fortress, my saviour, thou 
shalt preserve me from violence ; words which make the sen- 
tence fuller, but the meaning comes to the same thing. 


3. 1 will call upon the praised Jehovah, and I shall be saved 
from mine enemies. 

4. The cords* of death had compassed me about ; the torrents of 
wickedness* had made me afraid. | 

5. The cords of the grave? had compassed me about ; the snares 
of death had prevented me. 

6. In my distress I called upon Jehovah, and cried to my God : 
and he heard my voice from his temple, and my cry 
came before him, even into his ears. 


3. I will call upon the praised Jehovah. Calling upon God, 
as has been observed elsewhere, frequently comprehends the 
whole of his service; but as the effect or fruit of prayer is 
particularly mentioned in what follows, this phrase in the 


dit."—Fr. ‘ David, therefore, here equips the faithful from head to foot, 
as we say.” 

1 “ Ou brisemens.”—Fr. marg. “ Or contritions.” 

2 “ Heb. de Belial.” Fr. marg. ‘‘ Heb. of Belial.” 

% “ Ou de corruption.”—Jr. marg. “* Or of corruption.” 








| 


_ PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 263 


passage before us, I have no doubt, signifies to have recourse 
to God for protection, and to ask by prayer deliverance 
from him. David having said in the second verse, that he 
trusted in God, now subjoins this as an evidence of his trust ; 
for every one who confides in God will earnestly beseech his 
aid in the time of need. He therefore declares, that he will 
be saved, and prove victorious over all his enemies, because 
he will have recourse to God for help. He calls God the 
praised Jehovah, not only to intimate that he is worthy of 
being praised, as almost all interpreters explain it, but also to 
point out, that, when he came to the throne of grace, his 
prayers would be mingled and interwoven with praises. 
The scope of the passage seems to require that it be under- 
stood as meaning, that giving thanks to God for the benefits 
which he has received from him in times past, he will ask his 
assistance by renewed supplications. And certainly no man 
will ever invoke God in prayer freely and frankly unless he 
animate and encourage himself by the remembrance of the 
grace of God. Accordingly Paul, in Philip. iv. 6, exhorts 
the faithful “in every thing by prayer and supplication with 
thanksgiving, to make their requests known unto God,” and 
to disburden their cares, as it were, into his bosom. All 
those whose prayers are not accompanied with the praises of 
God are chargeable with clamouring and complaining against 
him, when engaged in that solemn exercise. 


4. The cords? of death had compassed me about. David now 
begins to recount the undoubted and illustrious proofs by which 


1 The word in the Hebrew text tbr», mehullal, literally signifies praised. 
The ancient versions view the word not as denoting that is worthy 
to be praised, which is the meaning attached to it in our English version, 
but as referring to the Psalmist’s resolution to praise God. e Septua- 

int reads, Awav eximadrsoo~as Kuesov, “ Praising I will call upon the 
rd.” ‘The reading of the Vulgate is the same, ‘* Laudans invocabo.” 
The Chaldee reads, “In a 7,3 or hymn I pour out ar pi unto the 
Lord ;” and the Arabic, ‘‘ I will praise the Lord, and upon him.” 
This is precisely the sense in which Calvin understands the words, “I 
will call upon the praised Jehovah.” 

* “Death is here personified under the semblance of a i con- 

queror, who binds his vanquished foes in strong fetters.”— Walfor 


264 ~COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


he had experienced that the hand of God is sufficiently strong 
and powerful to repel all the dangers and calamities with 
which he may be assailed. And we need not wonder that 
those things which might have been described more simply, 
and in an unadorned style, are clothed in poetical forms of 
expression, and set forth with all the elegancies and orna- 
ments of language. The Holy Spirit, to contend against and 
make an impression upon the wicked and perverse disposi- 
tions of men, has here furnished David with eloquence full 
of majesty, energy, and wonderful power, to awaken ‘man- 
kind to consider the benefits of God. There is scarcely any 
assistance God bestows, however evident and palpable it may 
be to our senses, which our indifference or proud disdain does 
not obscure. David, therefore, the more effectually to move 
and penetrate our minds, says that the deliverance and 
succour which God had granted him had been conspicuous 
in the whole frame-work of the world. This his intention it 
is needful for us to take into view, lest we should think that 
he exceeds due bounds in expressing himself in a style so 
remarkable for sublimity. The sum is, that, when in his dis- 
tresses he had been reduced to extremity, he had betaken 
himself to God for help, and had been wonderfully preserved. 

We shall now make a few observations with respect to the 
words. The Hebrew word 9M, chebley, means cords or 
sorrows, or any deadly evil, which consumes a man’s health 
and strength, and which tends to his destruction. That the 
psalm may correspond with the song recorded in 2d Samuel, 
formerly referred to, I do not disapprove of this word being 
here taken for contrition, because the phrase there employed is 
MD “3WDH, mishberey maveth,? and the noun 3WH, mish- 


1 «Sam, chebel,” says Hammond, “signifies two things, a cord, and a 
pang of a woman’s travail, and which it signifies must be resolved still by 
the context. Here, where it is joined with encompassing, it is most fitly 
to be understood in the former sense, because ropes or cords are Bite 
for that turn, as for holding and keeping in when they are in . 
The Chaldee understands the word in the other sense, and paraphrases the 
clause thus: ‘* Distress hath compassed me as a woman in travail which 
hath not strength to bring forth, and is in danger of death.” The Sep- 
rp ag adopts the same view, reading, “ ddiwes Severov,” “ the pangs of 

eath.’ 

2 Cocceius renders these words, ‘‘ the waves of death ;” and he observes, 





ov a a 


PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 265 


berey, is derived from a verb which signifies to break. But as 
the metaphor taken from cords or snares agrees better with 


the verb compass about, the import of which is, that David was 


on all sides involved and entangled in the perils of death, I 
am disposed rather to adopt this interpretation. What Sellars 
concerning torrents implies that he had been almost over- 
whelmed by the violence and impetuosity of his enemies 
against him, even as a man who is covered over the head with 
floods of water is almost lost. He calls them the torrents of 
Belial, because it was wicked and perverse men who had con- 
spired against him. The Hebrew word Belial has a wide 
signification. With respect to its etymology there are differ- 
ent opinions among expositors. Why Jerome has rendered it 
without yokes I know not. The more generally received opin- 
ion is, that it is compounded of these two words, ‘93, deli, not, 
and Y', yadl,? to denote that the wicked do not rise, in other 
words, ultimately gain nothing, and obtain no advantage by 
their infatuated course. The Jews certainly employed this 
word to designate every kind of detestable wickedness, and 
from this it is highly probable that David by it meant to 
describe his enemies, who basely and wickedly plotted his 
destruction.’ If, however, any prefer translating the phrase, 
by deadly torrents, I am not disposed to oppose this rendering. 
In the following verse he again repeats, that the corruptions 
or cords of the grave had compassed him about. As the 
Hebrew word is the same which he had employed in the 


that the word “waves,” explains the verb ‘“‘ compassed me about.” 
Death sent its sorrows thick upon him one after another, as the sea sends 
forth its waves, and with such violence that he was ready to be over- 

whelmed. The word zw, mishberey, is applied both to the breaking 
forth of infants in the birth, (Is. xxxvii. 3; Hosea xiii. 13,) and to the 
waves of the sea, (Ps, xlii. 7.)—Ainsworth. Horsley translates the phrase, 
“ The breakers of death.” ‘‘The metaphor,” says he, “is taken from 
those dangerous waves which our mariners call white breakers.” 

1 Jerome doubtless derived the word from %da, beli, not or without, and 
by, ol, a yoke, and thus the term Belial means those who shake off all re- 
straint. 

2 Si to profit, or to rise advantageously in any respect. 

s Bans a compound term, icant of vileness and worthlessness. 
The ‘ floods of Belial’ intend large bodies of men, who rush forward like 
Waijerd. torrents to overwhelm and destroy whatever opposes them.”— 


266 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVII. 


preceding verse, I have thought it proper to translate it cords _ 
here, as I have done there, not only because he.uses a verb 
which signifies to beset, to inclose, or to surround, but also — 
because he adds immediately after, the snares of death, which, _ 
in my opinion, is to be understood in the same sense. This, — 
then, is the description of the dangerous circumstances into 
which he was brought, and it enhances and magnifies so 
much the more the glory of his deliverance. As Dayid 
had been reduced to a condition so desperate that no hope 
of relief or deliverance from it was apparent, it is certain 
that he was delivered by the hand of God, and that it was 
not a thing effected by the power of man. 


6. In my distress, §c. It was a very evident proof of un- 
common faith in David, when, being almost plunged into the _ 
gulf of death, he lifted up his heart to heayen by prayer. 
Let us therefore learn, that such an example is set before — 
our eyes, that no calamities, however great and oppressive, 
may hinder us from praying, or create an aversion to it. It — 
was prayer which brought to David the fruits or wonderful — 
effects of which he speaks a little after, and from this it 
appears still more clearly that his deliverance was effected — 
by the power of God. In saying that he cried, he means, 
as we have observed elsewhere, the ardour and earnestness 
of affection which he had in prayer. Again, by calling God — 
his God, he separates himself from the gross despisers of — 
God, or hypocrites, who, when constrained by necessity, call — 
upon the Divine Majesty in a confused and tumultuous 
manner, but do not come to God familiarly and with a pure 
heart, as they know nothing of his fatherly favour and good- 
ness. When, therefore, as we approach to God, faith goes 
before to illumine the way, giving us the full persuasion 
that He is our Father, then is the gate opened, and we may — 
converse freely with Him and he with us. David, by eall- — 
ing God his God, and putting him on his side, also intimates _ 
that God was opposed to his enemies; and this serves to — 
show that he was actuated by true piety and the fear of God. 
By the word temple we are not here to understand the 
sanctuary as in many other places, but heaven; for the 





\ PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 267 


description which immediately follows cannot be applied to 
the sanctuary. Accordingly, the sense is, that when David 
was forsaken and abandoned in the world, and all men shut 
their ears to his cry for help, God stretched forth his hand 
from heaven to save him. 


7. Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations of the 
mountains were troubled, and were shaken, because he was 
wroth. 

8. There went up a smoke by [or out of | his nostrils, and fire pro- 
ceeding from his mouth devoured ; coals were kindled by it. 

9. And he bowed the heavens and came down : and thick dark- 
ness was under his feet. 

10. He rode also upon a cherub, and did fly ; and was carried 
upon the wings of the wind. 

11. He made darkness his secret [or hiding] place ; his pavilion 
[or tent] round about him was dark waters, and the clouds 
of the skies. 

7. Then the earth shook. David, convinced that the aid of 
God, which he had experienced, was of sucha character, that 
it was impossible for him to extol it sufficiently and as it 
deserved, sets forth an image of it in the sky and the earth, 
as if he had said, It has been as visible as the changes which 
give different appearances to the sky and the earth. If 
natural things always flowed in an even and uniform course, 
the power of God would not be so perceptible. But when 
he changes the face of the sky by sudden rain, or by loud 
thunder, or by dreadful tempests, those who before were, 
as it were, asleep and insensible, must necessarily be awak- 
ened, and be tremblingly conscious of the existence of a pre- 
siding God.’ Such sudden and unforeseen changes manifest 
more clearly the presence of the great Author of nature. 
No doubt, when the sky is unclouded and tranquil, we see 
in it sufficient evidences of the majesty of God, but as men 
will not stir up their minds to reflect upon that majesty, 
until it come nearer to them, David, the more powerfully to 
affect us, recounts the sudden changes by which we are usually 


2 “ Tl faut Senpmsircenent se les gens qui me pa estoyent comme 
ge et stupides se resueillent et apprebendent qu'il y a un Dieu.” — 


268 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. _ 


moved and dismayed, and introduces God at one time clothed 
with a dark cloud,—at another, throwing the air into confu- _ 
sion by tempests,—now rending it by the boisterous violence 
of winds,—now launching the lightnings,—and anon dart- 
ing down hailstones and thunderbolts. In short, the object 
of the Psalmist is to show that the God who, as often as he 
pleases, causes all parts of the world to tremble by his power, 
when he intended to manifest himself as the deliverer of 
David, was known as openly and by signs as evident as if he 
had displayed his power in all the creatures both above and 
beneath. 

In the first place, he says, The earth shook, and nothing 
is more dreadful than an earthquake. Instead of the words, 
the foundations of the mountains, it is in the song, as re- 
corded in 2d Samuel, the foundations of the heavens; but the 
meaning is the same, namely, that there was nothing in the 
world so settled and stedfast which did not tremble, and 
which was not removed out of its place. David, however, as 
I have already observed in the beginning, does not relate 
this as a piece of history, or as what had actually taken place, 
but he employs these similitudes for the purpose of removing 
all doubt, and for the greater confirmation of faith as to the 
power and providence of God ; because men, from their slow- 
ness of understanding, cannot apprehend God except by 
means of external signs. Some think that these miracles 
were actually wrought, and performed exactly as they are here 
related; but it is not easy to believe this, since the Holy 
Spirit, in the narrative given of David’s life, makes no mention 
whatever of such wonderful displays of divine power in his 
behalf. We cannot, however, justly censure or find fault 
with this hyperbolic manner of speaking, when we consider 
our slowness of apprehension, and also our depravity, to 
which I have just now called your attention. David, who 
was much more penetrating and quick of understanding than 
ordinary men, finding he could not sufficiently succeed in 
impressing and profiting people of sluggish and weak under- 
standings by a simple manner of speaking, describes under 
outward figures the power of God, which he had discovered 
by means of faith, and the revelation of the Holy Spirit. 





PSALM XvVul. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 269 


He doubtless hereby apprehended and knew more dis- 
tinctly the omnipresent majesty of God, than the dull sort 
of common people perceive the hand of God in earthquakes, 
tempests, thunders, the gloomy lowerings of the heavens, and 
the boisterous winds. At the same time, it is proper to 
consider, that although God had, in a wonderful manner, 
displayed his grace in defending and maintaining David, 
many, nevertheless, thought that it was by his own skill, or 
by chance, or by other natural means, that all his affairs had 
come to a prosperous issue; and it was such stupidity or 
depravity as this which he saw in the men of his own time, 
that constrained him to mention and to summon together all 
parts of creation as witnesses for God. Some also justly and 
judiciously consider that, in the whole of this description, 
David has an allusion to the common deliverance of God’s 
chosen people from Egypt. As God then designed and estab- 
lished that event to be a perpetual memorial, from which the 
faithful might learn that he was the guardian and protector 
of their welfare, so all the benefits which, from that period, 
he bestowed upon his people, either as a public body or as 
private individuals, were, so to speak, appendages of that first 
deliverance. Accordingly David, in other places as well as 
here, with the view of exalting the succour which God had 
granted to his people, sets forth that most memorable in- 
stance of the goodness of God towards the children of Israel, 
as if it were the archtype or original copy of the grace of 
God. And surely, while many, seeing him an exile from his 
- country, held him in derision as a man expelled from the 
family of God, and many murmured that he had violently 
and unrighteously usurped the kingdom, he had good 
ground to include, under the deliverance which had been 
common to all the people, the protection and safety which 
God had afforded to himself; as if he had said, I have been 
wrongfully cast off as an alien or stranger, seeing God has 
sufficiently shown, in the deliverance which he has wrought 
for me, that by him I am owned and acknowledged to be a 
distinguished and valuable member of the Church. We see 
how the prophets, whenever they would inspire the people 
with the hope of salvation, call their thoughts back to the 


270 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIIL 


contemplation of that first covenant which had been con- 
firmed by those miracles which were wrought in Egypt, in 
the passage through the Red Sea and in Mount Sinai. 
When he says, The earth trembled, because he was wroth, it is 
to be understood as referring to the ungodly. It is a form 
of speech which God often employs, to say, that, being 
inflamed with indignation, he arms himself to maintain the 
safety of his people against their persecutors. 


8. There went up a smoke by [or out of | his nostrils, §&e. 
The Hebrew word FIN, aph, properly signifies the nose, or the 
nostrils. But as it is sometimes taken metaphorically for 
wrath, some translate it thus, There went up a smoke in his 
wrath, which, in my opinion, is not at all appropriate. David 
compares the mists and vapours which darken the air to the 
thick smoke which a man sends forth from his nostrils when 
he is angry. And when God, by his very breath, covers the 
heaven with clouds, and taking away from us the brightness 
of the sun and of all the stars, overwhelms us in darkness, 
by this we are very impressively taught how dreadful is his 
wrath. By the rendering which I have given, the figure 
here strikingly harmonizes with the one in the clause which 
immediately follows, namely, that fire proceeding from his 
mouth consumed. The Psalmist means, that God, without 
great labour or effort, as soon as he shall have sent forth 
a breath or blast from his nostrils, and opened his mouth, 
will kindle such a fire that its smoke will darken the 
whole world, and its intense heat devour it. What he 
adds, Coals were kindled by it, serves to distinguish this 
dreadful fire from a flame which blazes for a moment, 
and then is extinguished. The bowing of the heavens, de- 
notes a time when the heavens are covered and obscured 
with clouds. When dense vapours occupy the middle of 
the air, the clouds seem to us to come down and to lie 
upon our heads. And not only so, but the majesty of God 
then approaching, as it were, nearer us, strikes us with 
dread dismay, and greatly distresses us, although before, 
when the sky was fair, agreeable, and tranquil, we took 
ample scope, and enjoyed ourselves with much gaiety. Again, 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 271 


let us remember, that the Scripture, under these descriptions 
of a clouded and darkened sky, pourtray to us the anger of 
God. When the sky is clear and unclouded, it seems as if 
it were the pleasant and benignant countenance of God 
beaming upon us, and causing us to rejoice ; whereas, on the 
other hand, when the atmosphere is troubled, we feel a 
depression of the animal spirits which constrains us to look 
sad, as if we saw God coming against us with a threatening 
aspect. At the same time, we are taught that no change 
takes place either in the atmosphere or in the earth, but what 
is a witness to us of the presence of God. 


10. He rode also upon a cherub. The Psalmist having 
exhibited to us a sign of the wrath of God in the clouds, 
and in the darkening of the air, representing him as if he 
breathed out smoke’ from his nostrils, and descended with a 
threatening countenance, to afflict men by the dreadful weight 
of his power ; and having also represented lightnings and thun- 
derbolts as flaming fire proceeding from his mouth,—he now 
introduces him as riding upon the winds and tempests, to take a 
survey of the whole world with rapid speed, or rather with the 
swiftness of flying. We meet with a similar description in Ps. 
civ. 3, where God is said to “ walk upon the wings of the 
winds,” and to send them forth in every direction as his swift 
messengers. David does not, however, simply represent God 
as the governor of the winds, who drives them by his power 
whithersoever he pleases; he at the same time tells us that 
he rides upon a cherub, to teach us that the very violence of 
the winds is governed by angels as God has ordained. We 
know that the angels were represented under the figure of the 
cherubim. David, therefore, I have no doubt, here intended 
to make an allusion to the ark of the covenant. In pro- 
posing for our consideration the power of God as manifested 
in the wonders of nature, he does it in such a manner as 
all the time to have an eye to the temple, where he knew 
God had made himself known in a peculiar manner to the 
children of Abraham. He therefore celebrates God not only 


1 Tout ainsi que s'il Macecert une fureur par les narines.”—Fr. “ As if 
_ he cast forth fry trou his nostrils 


i 


272 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


as creator of the world, but as He who entered into covenant — 
with Israel, and chose for himself a holy dwelling-place in 
the midst of that people. David might have called the — 
angels by their common name, but he has expressly made use _ 
of a term which has a reference to the visible symbol of the — 
ark, that true believers, in singing this psalm, might always — 
have their minds directed to the service of God which was 
performed in the temple. What follows with respect to — 
God’s dark pavilion or tent, is a repetition of the preceding 
sentence in different words, namely, that when God covers 
the air with dark clouds, it is as if he spread a thick veil 
between him and men, to deprive them of the sight of his 
countenance,' just as if a king, incensed against his subjects, 
should retire into his secret chamber and hide himself from _ 
them. Those take a mistaken view of this verse who bring — 
it forward to prove, in general, the hidden and mysterious 
character of the glory of God, as if David, with the view of 
restraining the presumption of human curiosity, had said — 
that God is hidden in darkness in regard to men. God, it 
is true, is said to dwell “in the light which no man can — 
approach unto,” (1 Tim. vi. 16 ;) but the form of expression 
which David here employs, I have no doubt, ought to be 
restricted, according to the scope of the passage, to the sense 
which I have given. 


12. At the brightness which was before him, his clouds passed 
away 3 there was hail-storm and coals of fire. 

13. Jehovah thundered in the heavens, and the Highest sent forth 
his voice ; there was hail-storm and coals of fire. 

14, He sent out his arrows, and scattered them, [or put them to — 
flight ;| he multiplied lightnings,? and put them into con- — 
Susion. | 


1 « ©est comme s'il tendoit un voile ih capes entre luy et les hommes, afin — 
de leur oster le regard de sa face.”—Fr , 

* In our English version it is, He shot out lightnings. ‘The Hebrew — 
word 335, rabab, signifies both to multiply and to shoot. As the 
of arrows is mentioned in the first clause of the verse, it may be 
that it is the wepoting of lightnings which is meant in the second clause, 
arrows and lightnings being contrasted. The reading of the Sepa 
Chaldee, Sree Yolen, yarebia: and Althiopic versions, however, is 
the same as that of Calvin,—He multiplied lightnings. 





a 


PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 273 


15, The sources of the waters were seen, and the foundations of 
the world were disclosed at thy rebuke, O Jehovah! at the 
blast of the breath of thy nostrils.' 

16. He sent from on high, hetook me, and drew me out of great waters. 

17. He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from my ad- 
versary ; for they were too streng for me. 

18. They had prevented me in the day of my calamity ; but Jeho- 
vah was my support. 

19. He brought me forth also into a large place ; he delivered me, 
because he had a good will to me, [or because he loved me. | 


12. At the brightness, §c. The Psalmist again returns to 
the lightnings which, by dividing and as it were cleaving 
the clouds, lay open the heaven; and, therefore, he says, that 
the clouds of God (that is to say, those which he had set 
before him, in token of his anger, for the purpose of depriv- 
ing men of the enjoyment of the light of his countenance) 
passed away at the brightness which was before him. These 
sudden changes affect us with a much more lively sense of 
the power and agency of God than natural phenomena which 
move onin one uniform course. He adds, that there followed 
hail-storm and coals of fire; for when the thunder separates 
and rends asunder the clouds, it either breaks out in light- 
nings, or the clouds resolve themselves into hail. 


13. Jehovah thundered. David here repeats the same thing 
in different words, declaring that God thundered from heaven ; 
and he calls the thunder the voice of God, that we may not 
suppose it is produced merely by chance or by natural causes, 
independent of the appointment and will of God. Philoso- 
phers, it is true, are well acquainted with the intermediate or 
secondary causes, from which the thunder proceeds, namely, 
that when the cold and humid vapours obstruct the dry and 
hot exhalations in their course upwards, a collision takes 
place, and by this, together with the noise of the clouds rush- 
ing against each other, is produced the rumbling thunder- 
peal.2 But David, in describing the phenomena of the 


1 Ou de ton ire.”—Fr. marg. “ Or at thy wrath.” 
2 “ De ce combat et aussi du bruit des nuees allans l'une contre l'autre, 
se fait un son.”—Fy. 


VOL. I. 8 


274 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


atmosphere, rises, under the guidance of the Holy Spirit, 
above the mere phenomena themselves, and represents God 
to us as the supreme governor of the whole, who, at his will, 
penetrates into the hidden veins of the earth, and thence 
draws forth exhalations; who then, dividing them into 
different sorts, disperses them through the air; who again 
collects the vapours together, and sets them in conflict with 
the subtile and dry heats, so that the thunder which follows 
seems to be a loud pealing voice proceeding from his own 
mouth. The song in 2d Samuel also contains the repetition 
to which we have referred in the commencement of our 
remarks on this verse; but the sense of this and the preced- 
ing verse, and of the corresponding verses in Samuel, are 
entirely similar. We should remember what I have said 
before, that David, under these figures, describes to us the 
dreadful power of God, the better to exalt and magnify the 
divine grace, which was manifested in his deliverance. He 
declares a little after, that this was his intention ; for, when 
speaking of his enemies, he says, (verse 14,) that they were 
scattered, or put to flight, by the arrows of God ; as if he had said, 
They have been overthrown, not by the hands or swords of 
men, but by God, who openly launched his thunderbolts 
against them. Not that he means to affirm that this 
happened literally, but he speaks in this metaphorical lan- 
guage, because those who were uninstructed and slow to 
acknowledge the power of God,! could not otherwise be 
brought to perceive that God was the author of his deliver- 
ance. The import of his words is, Whoever does not acknow- 
ledge that I have been preserved by the hand of God, may 
as well deny that it is God who thunders from heaven, and 
abolish his power which is manifested in the whole order of 
nature, and especially in those wonderful changes which we 
see taking place in the atmosphere. As God shoots light- 
nings as if they were arrows, the Psalmist has, in the first 
place, employed this metaphor; and then he has expressed 
the thing simply by its proper name. 


1 “ Et tardifs & recognoistre la vertu de Dieu.”—Fr. 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 275 


15. And the sources of the waters were seen. In this verse, 
Dayid doubtless alludes to the miracle which was wrought 
when the chosen tribes passed through the Red Sea. I have 
before declared the purpose for which he does this. As all 
the special benefits which God in old time conferred upon 
any of the children of Abraham as individuals, were so many 
testimonies by which he recalled to their remembrance the 
covenant which he had once entered into with the whole 
people, to assure them that he would always continue his grace 
towards them, and that one deliverance might be to them a 
token or pledge of their perpetual safety, and of the protection 
of God, David fitly conjoins with that ancient deliverance of 
the Church the assistance which God had sent from heaven 
to him in particular. As the grace which he declares God had 
shown towards him was not to be separated from that first 
deliverance, since it was, so to speak, a part and an appendage 
of it, he beholds, as it were at a glance, or in an instant, both 
the ancient miracle of the drying up of the Red Sea, and the 
assistance which God granted to himself. In short, God, who 
once opened up for his people a way through the Red Sea, 
and then showed himself to be their protector upon this con- 
dition, that they should assure themselves of being always 
maintained and preserved under his keeping, now again 
displayed his wonderful power in the defence and preserva- 
tion of one man, to renew the remembrance of that ancient 
history. From this it appears the more evidently, that 
David, in using these apparently strange and exaggerated 
hyperboles, does not recite to us the mere creations of ro- 
mance to please the fancy, after the manner of the heathen 
poets," but observes the style and manner which God had, 
as it were, prescribed to his people. At the same time, we 
ought carefully to mark the reason already adverted to, 
which constrained him to magnify the grace of God in a 
style of such splendid imagery, namely, because the greater 
part of the people never made the grace of God the subject 


1 «En usant de ces hyperboles et similitudes qui semblent estranges et 
excessives ne nous recite pas des fables et contes faits d plaisir a la fagon 
des Poétes profanes.”—Jr. 


276 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


of serious consideration, but, either through wickedness or 
stupidity, passed over it with shut eyes. The Hebrew 
word ‘pds; aphikim, which I have rendered sources, pro- 
perly signifies the channels of rivers; but David, in this 
passage, evidently means that the very springs or sources of 
the waters were laid open, and that thus it could be discerned 
whence proceeds the great and inexhaustible abundance of 
waters which supply the rivers, and by which they always 
continue to flow on in their course. 


16. He sent down from above. Here there is briefly shown 
the drift of the sublime and magnificent narrative which has 
now passed under our review, namely, to teach us that David 
at length emerged from the profound abyss of his troubles, 
neither by his own skill, nor by the aid of men, but that he 
was drawn out of them by the hand of God. When God 
defends and preserves us wonderfully and by extraordinary 
means, he is said in Scripture language to send down succour 
from above; and this sending is set in opposition to human 
and earthly aids, on which we usually place a mistaken and 
an undue confidence. I do not disapprove of the opinion of 
those who consider this as referring to the angels, but I un- 
derstand it in a more general sense; for by whatever means 
we are preserved, it is God who, having his creatures ready 
at his nod to do his will, appoints them to take charge of us, 
and girds or prepares them for succouring us. But, although 
every kind of aid comes from heaven, David, with good reason, 
affirms that God had stretched out his hand from on high to 
deliver him. In speaking thus, he meant to place the astonish- 
ing benefit referred to, by way of eminence, above others of a 
more common kind ; and besides, there is in this expression a 
tacit comparison between the unusual exercise of the power of 
God here celebrated, and the common and ordinary means by 
which he succours his people. When he says, that God drew 
him out of great waters, itis a metaphorical form of expression. 
By comparing the cruelty of his enemies to impetuou 
torrents, by which he might have been swallowed up a hun- 
dred times, he expresses more clearly the greatness of the 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 277 


danger; as if he had said, I have, contrary to the expecta- 
tion of men, escaped, and been delivered from a deep abyss 
in which I was ready to be overwhelmed. In the following 
verse he expresses the thing simply and without a figure, 
declaring that he had been delivered from a strong enemy,' 
who mortally hated and persecuted him. The more to exalt 
and magnify the power of God, he directs our attention to 
this circumstance, that no strength or power of men had 
been able to prevent God from saving him, even when he 
was reduced to the greatest extremity of distress. As in the 
end of the verse there is the Hebrew particle °5, 4, which 
generally denotes the cause of what is predicated, almost all 
interpreters agree in explaining the verse thus: God has suc- 
coured me from above, because my enemies were so numerous 
and so strong that no relief was to be expected by the mere 
aidof men. From this we deduce avery profitable doctrine, 
namely, that the most seasonable time for God to aid his 
people is when they are unable to sustain the assaults of 
their enemies, or rather, when, broken and afflicted, they sink \ 
under their violence, like the wretched man who, having in K 
a shipwreck lost all hope of being able to swim to the shore, 
sinks with great rapidity to the bottom of the deep. The 
particle °5, A¢, however, might also be explained by the 
adversative particle although, in this way: Although the 
enemies of David were superior to him in number and power, 
he nevertheless was saved. 


18. They had prevented me in the day of my calamity? The 
Psalmist here confirms in different words the preceding 
sentence, namely, that he had been sustained by the aid of 
God, when there was no way of escaping by the power of 
man. He tells us how he had been besieged on all sides, and 


1 Bishop Patrick paraphrases the verse thus :—‘ He delivered me first 
from that mighty giant, Goliath, and then from Saul, whose power I was 
not able to withstand; and afterwards from the Philistines and Syrians, 
and many other nations, whose forces were far superior unto mine, and 
whose hatred insti them to do all they could to destroy me.” 

2 “They set their faces against me in the day of my calamity.” 
Walford. 


278 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


that not by an ordinary siege, inasmuch as his enemies, in 
persecuting him, always molested him most in the time of 
his calamity. From this circumstance it is the more evident 
that he had obtained enlargement by no other means than by 
the hand of God. Whence proceeded so sudden a restoration 
from death to life, but because God intended to show that he 
has in his hand, and under his absolute control, the issues of 
death? In short, the Psalmist ascribes his deliverance to no 
other cause than the mere good pleasure of God, that all the 
praise might redound to him alone: He delivered me, because 
he loved me, or had a good will to me. In mentioning the 
good pleasure of God, he has a special ng: to his own 
calling to be king. The point on which he principally 
insisted is, that the assaults which were made upon him, 
and the conflicts which he had to sustain, were stirred 
up against him for no other reason but because he had 
obeyed the call of God, and followed with humble obedience 
the revelation of his oracle. Ambitious and turbulent men, 
who are carried headlong by their unruly lusts, inconsiderately 
to attempt any thing, and who, by their rashness, involve 
themselves in dangers, may often accomplish their under- 
takings by vigorous and resolute efforts, but at length a 
reverse takes place, and they are stopt short in their career 
of success, for they are unworthy of being sustained and 
prospered by God, since, without having any warrant or 
foundation for what they do in his call, they would raise 
their insane structures even to heaven, and disturb all around 
them. In short, David testifies, by this expression, that the 
assistance of God had never failed him, because he had not 
thrust himself into the office of king of his own accord, but that 
when he was contented with his humble condition, and would 
willingly have lived in obscurity, in the sheep-cotes, or in his 
father’s hut, he had been anointed by the hand of Samuel, 
which was the symbol of his free election by God to fill the 
throne. 





_ PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 279 


20. Jehovah rewarded me according to my righteousness; he 
" recompensed me according to the cleanness of my hands. 
21. For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, and have not wickedly 
departed from my God. 
22. For all his judgments were before me, nor did I put away his 
statutes [or ordinances] from me. 
23. I was also upright with him,* and kept myself from my iniquity. 
24. Therefore Jehovah hath recompensed me according to my 
righteousness, according to the cleanness % my hands before 
his eyes. 


20. Jehovah rewarded me. David might seem at first 
sight to contradict himself; for, while a little before he 
declared that all the blessings which he possessed were to be 
traced to the good pleasure of God, he now boasts that God 
rendered to him a just recompense. But if we remember for 
what purpose he connects these commendations of his own 
integrity with the good pleasure of God, it will be easy to 
reconcile these apparently conflicting statements. He has 
before declared that God was the sole author and originator 
of the hope of coming to the kingdom which he entertained, 
and that he had not been elevated to it by the suffrages of 
men, nor had he rushed forward to it through the mere impulse 
of his own mind, but accepted it because such was the will of 
God. Now he adds, in the second place, that he had yielded 
faithful obedience to God, and had never turned aside from 
his will. Both these things were necessary; first, that God 
should previously show his favour freely towards David, in 
choosing him to be king; and next, that David, on the other 
hand, should, with an obedient spirit, and a pure conscience, 
receive the kingdom which God thus freely gave him; and 
farther, that whatever the wicked might attempt, with the 
view of overthrowing or shaking his faith, he should never- 
theless continue to adhere to the direct course of his calling. 
Thus, then, we see that these two statements, so far from 
disagreeing with each other, admirably harmonize. David here 
represents God as if the president? of a combat, under whose 


1 « Envers ou devant luy.”——Note, Fr. marg. ‘* Towards or before him.” 
3 Agonotheta. Calvin alludes to the ancient Fames and combats of 


Greece, the presidents of which were called Agono 


280 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


authority and conduct he had been brought forth to engage 
in the combats. Now that depended upon election, in other 
words, upon this, that God having embraced him with his 
favour, had created him king. He adds in the verses which 
immediately follow, that he had faithfully performed the duties 
of the charge and office committed to him even to the utter- 
most. It is not, therefore, wonderful if God maintained and 
protected David, and even showed, by manifest miracles, that 
he was the defender of his own champion,’ whom he had, of 
his own free choice, admitted to the combat, and who he saw 
had performed his duty with all fidelity. We ought not, 
however, to think that David, for the sake of obtaining praise 
among men, has here purposely indulged in the la 

of vain boasting; we ought rather to view the Holy Spirit 
as intending by the mouth of David to teach us the profitable 
doctrine, that the aid of God will never fail us, provided we 
follow our calling, keep ourselves within the limits which it 
prescribes, and undertake nothing without the command or 
warrant of God. At the same time, let this truth be deeply 
fixed in our minds, that we can only begin an upright course 
of life when God of his good pleasure adopts us into his 
family, and in effectually calling, anticipates us by his grace, 
without which neither we nor any creature would give him 
an opportunity of bestowing this blessing upon us.? 

There, however, still remains one question. If God rendered 
to David a just recompense, it may be said, does it not seem, 
when he shows himself liberal towards his people, that he is 
so in proportion as each of them has deserved? I answer, 
When the Scripture uses the word reward or recompense, it 
is not to show that God owes us any thing, and it is there- 
fore a groundless and false conclusion to infer from this that 
there is any merit or worth in works. God, as a just judge, 
rewards every man according to his works, but he does it in 
such a manner, as to show that all men are indebted to him, 
while he himself is under obligation to no one. The reason 


1 Athleta. Those who exercised themselves with the view of contending 
for the prizes in the Grecian games and combats were called A 


r ‘* Sans que nous ne creature quelconque luy en donnions occasion.” 
anf? 


\PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 281 


is not only that which St Augustine has assigned, namely, 
that God finds no righteousness in us to recompense, except 
what he himself has freely given us, but also because, for- 
giving the blemishes and imperfections which cleave to our 
works, he imputes to us for righteousness that which he 
might justly reject. If, therefore, none of our works please 
God, unless the sin which mingles with them is pardoned, it 
follows, that the recompense which he bestows on account 
of them proceeds not from our merit, but from his free and 
undeserved grace. We ought, however, to attend to the 
special reason why David here speaks of God rewarding him 
according to his righteousness. He does not presumptuously 
thrust himself into the presence of God, trusting to or 
depending upon his own obedience to the law as the ground 
of his justification ; but knowing that God approved the affec- 
tion of his heart, and wishing to defend and acquit himself 
from the false and wicked calumnies of his enemies, he makes 
God himself the judge of his cause. We know how unjustly 
and shamefully he had been loaded with false accusations, 
and yet these calumnies did not so much bear against the 
honour and name of Dayid as against the welfare and estate 
of the whole Church in common. It was indeed mere private 
spite which stirred up Saul, and drove him into fury against 
Dayid, and it was to please the king that all other men were 
so rancorous against an innocent individual, and broke forth 
so outrageously against him; but Satan, there is no doubt, 
had a prime agency in exciting these formidable assaults 
upon the kingdom of David, and by them he endeavoured 
to accomplish his ruin, because in the person of this one man 
God had placed, and, as it were, shut up the hope of the 
salvation of the whole people. This is the reason why David 
labours so carefully and so earnestly to show and to main- 
tain the righteousness of his cause. When he presents 
and defends himself before the judgment-seat of God against 
his enemies, the question is not concerning the whole course 
of his life, but only respecting one certain cause, or a particular 
point. We ought, therefore, to attend to the precise subject of 
his discourse, and what he here debates. The state of the 
matter is this: His adversaries charged him with many crimes; 


282 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. _ 


first, of rebellion and treason, accusing him of having revolted 
from the king his father-in-law; in the second place, of 
plunder and robbery, as if, like a robber, he had taken . 
sion of the kingdom ; thirdly, of sedition, as if he had thrown — 
the kingdom into confusion when it enjoyed tranquillity; — 
and, lastly, of cruelty and many flagitious actions, as if he had ~ 
been the cause of murders, and had prosecuted his conspiracy 
by many dangerous means and unlawful artifices. David, in — 
opposition to these accusations, with the view of maintain- — 
ing his innocence before God, protests and affirms that he 
had acted uprightly and sincerely in this matter, inasmuch 
as he attempted nothing without the command or warrant 
of God; and whatever hostile attempts his enemies made 
against him, he nevertheless always kept himself within the 
bounds prescribed by the Divine Law. It would be absurd — 
to draw from this the inference that God is merciful to men 
according as he judges them to be worthy of his favour. 
Here the object in view is only to show the goodness of a 
particular cause, and to maintain it in opposition to wicked 
calumniators; and not to bring into examination the whole 
life of a man, that he may obtain favour, and be pronounced 
righteous before God. In short, David concludes from the 
effect and the issue, that his cause was approved of by God, 
not that one victory is always and necessarily the sign of a — 
good cause, but because God, by evident tokens of his assist- 
ance, showed that he was on the side of David. 


21. For I have hept the ways of Jehovah. He had spoken 
in the preceding verse of the cleanness of his hands, but 
finding that men judged of him perversely, and were very — 
active in spreading evil reports concerning him,' he affirms — 
that he had kept the ways of the Lord, which is equivalent 
to his appealing the matter to the judgment-seat of God. 
Hypocrites, it is true, are accustomed confidently to appeal — 
to God in the same way; yea, there is nothing which they — 
are more forward in doing than in dallying with the sacred 
name of God, and making it a cover to conceal their hypo- 


1 “ Et que bien legerement on semoit de Iuy de mauvais bruits.”—Fr. 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 283 


erisy ; but David brings forward nothing which men might 
not have certainly known to be true, if any regard to justice 
had existed among them. Let us, therefore, from his ex- 
ample, endeavour above all things to have a good conscience. 
And, in the second place, let us have the magnanimity to 
despise the false judgments of men, and to look up to heaven 
for the vindicator of our character and cause. He adds, I 
have not wickedly departed from my God. This implies, that 
he always aimed directly at the mark of his calling, although 
the ungodly attempted many things to overthrow his faith. 
The verb which he uses does not denote one fall only, but a 
defection which utterly removes and alienates a man from 
God. David, it is true, sometimes fell into sin through the 
weakness of the flesh, but he never desisted from following 
after godliness, nor deserted the service to which God had 
ealled him. 


22. For all his judgments were before me. He now shows 
how he came to possess that unbending rectitude of char- 
acter, by which he was enabled to act uprightly amidst 
so many and so grievous temptations, namely, because he 
always applied his mind to the study of the law of God. 
As Satan is daily making new assaults upon us, it is necessary 
for us to have recourse to arms, and it is meditation upon the 
Divine Law which furnishes us with armour to resist. Who- 
ever, therefore, would desire to persevere in uprightness and 
integrity of life, let them learn to exercise themselves daily 
in the study of the word of God; for, whenever a man 
despises or neglects instruction, he easily falls into careless- 
ness and stupidity, and all fear of God vanishes from his 
mind. Ido not intend here to make any subtle distinction 
between these two words, judgments and ordinances. If, 
however, any person is inclined to make a distinction between 
them, the best distinction is to refer judgments to the second 
table of the law, and ordinances, or statutes, which in Hebrew 
are called F\D\M, chukoth, to the duties of piety and the 
exercises immediately connected with the worship of God. 


23. I was also upright with him. All the verbs in this 


284 | COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVII. 


verse are put by David in the future tense, J will be 
upright, §c., because he does not boast of one act only, or of 
a good work performed by fits and starts, but of steady per- 
severance in an upright course. What I have said before, 
namely, that David takes God for his judge, as he saw that 
he was wrongfully and unrighteously condemned by men, 
appears still more clearly from what he here says, “I have 
been upright with him.” The Scriptures, indeed, sometimes 
speak in similar terms of the saints, to distinguish them from 
hypocrites, who content themselves with wearing the outward 
mask of religious observances ; but it is to disprove the false 
reports which were spread against him that David thus 
confidently appeals to God with respect to them. ‘This is 
still more fully confirmed by the repetition of the same thing 
which is made a little after, According to the cleanness of my 
hands before his eyes. In these words there is evidently a 
contrast between the eyes of God and the blinded or malig- 
nant eyes of the world; as if he had said, I disregard false 
and wicked calumnies, provided I am pure and upright in the 
sight of God, whose judgment can never be perverted by 
malevolent or other vicious and perverse affections. More- 
over, the integrity which he attributes to himself is not per- 
fection but sincerity, which is opposed to dissimulation and 
hypocrisy. This may be gathered from the last clause of the 
23d verse, where he says, J have hept myself from my iniquity. 
In thus speaking, he tacitly acknowledges that he had not 
been so pure and free from sinful affections as that the 
malignity of his enemies did not frequently excite indigna- 
tion within him, and gall him to the heart. He had therefore 
to fight in his own mind against many temptations, for as he 
was a man, he must have felt in the flesh on many occasions 
the stirrings of vexation and anger. But this was the proof 
of his virtue, that he imposed a restraint upon himself, and 
refrained from whatever he knew to be contrary to the word 
of God. A man will never persevere in the practice of 
uprightness and of godliness, unless he carefully keep him- 
self from his iniquity. 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 285 


25. With the merciful thou wilt deal mercifully,’ with an upright 
man thou wilt show thyself upright. 
26. With the pure? thou wilt be pure, and with the perverse thou 
wilt show thyself perverse. 
27. For thou wilt save the afflicted people,*® and wilt bring down 
the haughty eyes.* 


25. With the merciful, §c. David here prosecutes the same 
subject. In considering the grace of God by which he had 
been delivered, he brings it forward as a proof of his inte- 
grity, and thus triumphs over the unfounded and disgraceful 
calumnies of his enemies. Hypocrites, I confess, are also 
accustomed to act in the same way; for prosperity and the 
success of their affairs so elates them that they are not 
ashamed proudly to vaunt themselves not only against men, 
but even against God. As such persons, however, openly 
mock God, when, by his long-suffering, he allures them to 
repentance, their wicked and unhappy presumption has no 
resemblance to the boasting by which we here see David 
encouraging himself. He does not abuse the forbearance and 
mercy of God by palliating or spreading a specious varnish 
over his iniquities, because God bears with them ; but having, 
by the manifold aids he had received from God, experienced 
beyond doubt that he was merciful to him, he justly viewed 
them as evident testimonies of the divine favour towards 
him. And we ought to mark well this difference between 
the ungodly and the faithful, namely, that the former, intoxi- 
cated with prosperity, unblushingly boast of being accept- 
able to God, while yet they disregard him, and rather 
sacrifice to Fortune, and make it their God ;> whereas 
the latter in their prosperity magnify the grace of God, 
from the deep sense of his grace with which their consciences 


1 “Tu te monstreras debonnaire envers le debonnaire.”—Fr. “ To- 
wards the merciful thou wilt show thyself merciful.” 

# “ Envers.”—Wote, Fr. marg.. “* That is, towards.” 

® Some read, The humble people, supposing that, as the contrast is 
between them and proud looks, humility rather than suffering i is meant. 

* This is the literal rendering of the Hebrew text. ‘The meaning 
obviously is, that the haughty themselves shall be humbled, however con- 
fident they may be.”—French and Skinner. 

** Tis sacrifient plustost & Fortune, et en font leur Dieu.”—. 


286 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


are affected. Thus David here boasts that God had succoured — 
him on account of the justice of his cause. For, in the first — 
place, we must adapt the words to the scope of the whole — 
discourse, and view them as implying that God, in so often 
delivering an innocent man from death, when it was near — 
him, showed, indeed, that he is merciful towards the merciful, 
and pure towards the pure. In the second place, we must view 
the words as teaching the general doctrine, that God never — 
disappoints his servants, but always at length deals graciously 
with them, provided they wait for his aid with meekness and 
patience. To this purpose Jacob said, in Gen. xxx. 33, 
“ God will make my righteousness to return upon me.” The 
scope of the discourse is, that the people of God should — 
entertain good hope, and encourage themselves to practise — 
uprightness and integrity, since every man shall reap the 
fruit of his own righteousness. 

The last clause of the 26th verse, where it is said, With the 
perverse thou wilt show thyself perverse, seems to convey a 
meaning somewhat strange, but it does not imply any thing 
absurd; yea, rather, it is not without good reason that the 
Holy Spirit uses this manner of speaking; for he designs 
thereby to awaken hypocrites and the gross despisers of God, 
who lull themselves asleep in their vices without any appre- 
hension of danger.!_ We see how such persons, when the Serip- — 
ture proclaims the sore and dreadful judgments of God, and — 
when also God himself denounces terrible vengeance, pass 
over all these things, without giving themselves any trouble 
about them. Accordingly, this brutish, and, as it were, mon- 
strous stupidity which we see in men, compels God to invent 
new forms of expression, and, as it were, to clothe himself — 
with a different character. There is a similar sentence in 
Lev. xxvi. 21-24, where God says, “ And if ye walk contrary 
unto [or perversely with] me, then will I also walk contrary 
unto [or perversely or roughly, or at random against] you ;” 
as if he had said, that their obstinacy and stubbornness would 
make him on his part forget his accustomed forbearance and — 
gentleness, and cast himself recklessly or at random against — 


* “ Qui s’endorment en leurs vices sans rien craindre.”—Fr, 





- PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 287 


them. We sce, then, what the stubborn at length gain by 
their obduracy ; it is this, that God hardens himself still more 
to break them in pieces, and if they are of stone, he causes 
them to feel that he has the hardness of iron. Another reason 
which we may assign for this manner of speaking is, that the 
Holy Spirit, in addressing his discourse to the wicked, 
commonly speaks ‘according to their own apprehension. 
When God thunders in good earnest upon them, they trans- 
form him, through the blind terrors which seize upon them, 
into a character different from his real one, inasmuch as they 
conceive of nothing as entering into it but barbarity, cruelty, 
and ferocity. We now see the reason why David does 
not simply attribute to God the name and office of judge, 
but introduces him as armed with impetuous violence, for 
resisting and overcoming the perverse, according as it is said 
in the common proverb, A tough knot requires a stout 


wedge. 


27. For thou wilt save the afflicted people. ‘This verse 
contains the correction of a mistake into which we are very 
ready to fall. As experience shows that the merciful are often 
severely afflicted, and the sincere involved in troubles of a 
very distressing description, to prevent any from regarding 
the statement as false that God deals mercifully with the 
merciful, David admonishes us that we must wait for the end ; 
for although God does not immediately run to succour the 
good, yet, after having exercised their patience fora time, he 
lifts them up from the dust on which they lay prostrate, and 
brings effectual relief to them, even when they were in despair. 
Whence it follows, that we ought only to judge by the issue 
how God shows himself merciful towards the merciful and 
pure towards the pure. If he did not keep his people in sus- 
pense and waiting long for deliverance from affliction, it could 
not be said that it is his prerogative to save the afflicted. And 
it is no small consolation, in the midst of our adversities, to 
know that God purposely delays to communicate his assist- 

1 “ Comme s'il disoit que leur obstination et opiniastrete sera cause que 


luy de son costé oubliant sa moderation et douceur accoustumee, se 
jettera & tors et & travers contre eux.”—Fr. 


288 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


ance, which otherwise is quite prepared, that we may expe- 
rience his goodness in saving us after we have been afflicted — 
and brought low.' Nor ought we to reckon the wrongs 
which are inflicted upon us too bitter, since they excite God — 
to show towards us his favour which bringeth salvation. As 
to the second clause of this verse, the reading is a little — 
different in the song in the 2d Book of Samuel, where the 
words are, Thine eyes are against the proud to cast them down, — 
But this difference makes no alteration as to the meaning, — 
except that the Holy Spirit there more plainly threatens the — 
proud, that, as God is on the watch to overthrow them, it is 
impossible for them to escape destruction. The substance of 
both places is this: The more the ungodly indulge in grati- 
fying their own inclinations, without any fear of danger, and 
the more proudly they despise the afflicted poor who are under 
their feet, they are so much the nearer to destruction. 
Whenever, therefore, they cruelly break forth against us 
with mockery and contempt, let us know that there is no- 
thing which prevents God from repelling their headstrong 
pertinacity, but that their pride is not yet come to its height. 


28. For thou shalt light my lamp, O Jehovah ; my God shall 

enlighten my darkness. 

29. For by thee? I shall break through the wedge* of a troop, and 

by my God I shall leap over a wall. 

30. The way of God is perfect ; the word of Jehovah is refined, 

[or purified ;] he is a shield to all those who trust in him. 

31. For who is God besides Jehovah ? and who is strong except 

our God? 

32. It is God who hath girded me with strength, and hath made 

my way perfect. 

28. For thou shalt light my lamp. In the song in Samuel, 
the form of the expression is somewhat more precise ; for there — 
it is said not that God lights our lamp, but that he himself is 
our lamp. The meaning, however, comes to the same thing, 
namely, that it was by the grace of God that David, who had 


1 “ Afin de nous faire esprouver comment il sauve les affligez.”—Fr. 

2 « Par ta vertu.”—Note, Fr. marg. ‘ That is, by thy power.” 

3 Cuneum. A battalion or company of foot drawn up in the form of a 
wedge, the better to break the enemies’ ranks, 





_ PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS, 289 


‘been plunged in darkness, returned to the light. David does 
not simply give thanks to God for having lighted up a lamp 
before him, but also for having converted his darkness into 
light. He, therefore, acknowledges that he had been reduced 
to such extremity of distress, that he was like a man whose 
condition was forlorn and hopeless; for he compares the 
confused and perplexed state of his affairs to darkness. This, 
indeed, by the transference of material things to things spirit- 
ual, may be applied to the spiritual illumination of the under- 
standing; but, at the same time, we must attend to the sub- 
ject of which David treats, that we may not depart from the 
true and proper meaning. Now, as he acknowledges that he 
had been restored to prosperity by the favour of God, which 
was to him, as it were, a life-giving light, let us, after his 
example, regard it as certain that we will never have the 
comfort of seeing our adversities brought to an end, unless 
God disperse the darkness which envelops us, and restore to 
us the light of joy. Let it not, however, be distressing to us 
to walk through darkness, provided God is pleased to per- 
form to us the office of alamp. In the following verse, David 
ascribes his victories to God, declaring that, under his con- 
duct, he had broken through the wedges or phalanzes of his 
enemies, and had taken by storm their fortified cities. Thus 
we see that, although he was a valiant warrior, and skilled in 
arms, he arrogates nothing to himself. As to the tenses of 
the verbs, we would inform our readers once for all, that in 
this psalm David uses the past and the future tenses indif- 
ferently, not only because he comprehends different histories, 
but also because he presents to himself the things of which he 
speaks as if they were still taking place before his eyes, and, 
at the same time, describes a continued course of the grace 
of God towards him. 


1 The last clause, By my God have I leaped over a wall, is rendered by 
the Chaldee, ** I will subdue fortified towers.” Hammond renders it, ‘* By 
my God I have taken a fort.” In support of this view, he observes that the 
word sw, shur, from ww, shor, to look, mentee both a wall, from which to 
observe the approach of the enemy, and a watch-tower and fort ; that if 
we take -w, shur, as meaning a wall, the verb 25, dalag, will be rightl 
rendered to leap over; but if sw, shur, means a fort, then the verb will 
mean to seize on it suddenly, and will therefore be best translated to take 
uw. 

VOL. I. T 


290 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


30. The way of God is perfect. The phrase, The way of 
God, is not here taken for his revealed will, but for his 
method of dealing towards his people. The meaning, there- 
fore, is, that God never disappoints or deceives his servants, 
nor forsakes them in the time of need, (as may be the case 
with men who do not aid their dependants, except in so far 
as it contributes to their own particular advantage,) but faith- 
fully defends and maintains those whom he has once taken 
under his protection. But we will never have any nearness 
to God, unless he first come near to us by his word; and, 
for this reason, David, after having asserted that God aids 
his people in good earnest, adds, at the same time, that his 
word is purified. Let us, therefore, rest assured that God 
will actually show himself upright towards us, seeing he 
has promised to be the guardian and protector of our wel- 
fare, and his promise is certain and infallible truth. That 
by the word we are not here to understand the command- 
ments, but the promises of God, is easily gathered from the 
following clause, where it is said, He is a shield to all those 
who trust in him. It seems, indeed, a common commenda- 
tion to say, that the word of God is pure, and without any 
mixture of fraud and deceit, like silver which is well refined 
and purified from all its dross. But our unbelief is the 
cause why God, so to speak, is constrained to use such a 
similitude, for the purpose of commending and leading us to 
form exalted conceptions of the stedfastness and certainty of 
his promises ; for whenever the issue does not answer our 

tation, there is nothing to which we are naturally more 
ee than forthwith to begin to entertain unhallowed and 
distrustful thoughts of the word of God. For a farther 
explanation of these words, we would refer our readers to our 
remarks on the 6th verse of the 12th Psalm. 


31. For who is God besides Jehovah? David here, deriding 
the foolish inventions of men, who, according to their own 
fancy, make for themselves tutelary gods,' confirms what I 


' “ Qui se forgent & leur fantasie des dieux qui soyent leurs protecteurs 
et patrons."——-Fr, “ Who, according to their own fancy, make for them- 
selves gods to be their protectors and patrons.” 








| 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 291 


have said before, that he never undertook any thing but by 
the authority and command of God. If he had passed beyond 
the limits of his calling, he could not with such confidence 
have said that God was on his side. Besides, although in 
these words he opposes to the true God all the false gods 
invented by men, his purpose, at the same time, is to over- 
throw all the vain hopes in which the world is wrapped up, 
and by which it is carried about, and prevented from resting 
in God. The question which David here treats of is not the 
bare title and name of God, but he declares that whatever 
assistance we need we should seek it from God, and from no 
other quarter, because he alone is endued with power: Who 
is strong except our God? We should, however, attend to 
the design of David, which I have first adverted to, namely, 
that, by confidently representing God as opposed to all his 
enemies, and as the leader, under whose standard he had 
valiantly fought against them, he means to affirm that he 
had attempted nothing according to his own fancy, or with 
an evil and condemning conscience. 


32. It is God who hath girded. This is a metaphor taken 
either from the belt or girdle of a warrior, or from the reins, 
in which the Scripture sometimes places a man’s vigour or 
strength. It is, therefore, as if he had said, I, who would other- 
wise have been feeble and effeminate, have been made strong 
and courageous by the power of God. He afterwards speaks 
of the success itself with which God had favoured him; for it 
would not be enough for persons to have prompt and active 
courage, nor even to excel in strength, if their undertakings 
were not at the same time crowned. with a prosperous issue. 
Irreligious men imagine that this proceeds from their own 
prudence, or from fortune ; but David ascribes it to God 
alone: It is God who hath made my way perfect. The word 
way is here to be understood of the course of our actions, 
and the language implies, that whatever David undertook, 
God, by his blessing, directed it tg a successful issue. 


292 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


33. Making my feet like hinds’! feet, and he hath set me wpon my 
high places. 

34. Teaching my hands to war: and a bow of steel’ will be 
broken by my arms. 

35. Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation ; and thy 
right hand hath holden me up, and thy clemency hath 
increased me. 

36. Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, and my feet have 
not staggered. 


David, having taken many strongholds which, on account 
of their steep and difficult access, were believed to be impreg- 
nable, extols the grace of God in this particular. When 
he says that God had given him feet like hinds’ feet, he means 
that he had given him unusual swiftness, and such as does not 
naturally belong to men. The sense, therefore, is, that he 
had been aided by God in an extraordinary manner, so that 
like a roe he climbed with amazing speed over inaccessible 
rocks. He calls the strongholds, which, as conqueror, he had 
obtained by right of war, his high places; for he could justly 
boast that he took possession of nothing which belonged to 
another man, inasmuch as he knew that he had been called 
to occupy these fortresses by God. When he says that his 
hands had been taught and framed to war, he confesses that he 
had not acquired his dexterity in fighting by his own skill, nor 
by exercise and experience, but had obtained it as a gift 
through the singular goodness of God. It is true in general, 
that strength and skill in war proceed only from a secret 
virtue communicated by God; but David immediately after 
shows that he had been furnished with greater strength for 

1 “ Faisant, ascavoir, me donnant legerete de pieds.”—Note, Fr. marg. 
“ Making, namely, giving me swiftness of feet.” - ; 

* It should be brass, and not steel. ‘* A bow of steel,” says Dr Adam 
Clarke, ‘is out of the question. In the days of David, it is not likely 
that the method of making steel was known. The method of making brass 
out of was known at a very early period of the world; and the 
ancients had the art of hardening it, so as to work it into the most efficient 
swords.” Horsley reads, “ Thou hast made om i arms like a brazen bow.” 
This is also the reading of the Septuagint, Vulgate, Jerome, and all the 
versions. But the reading of Calvin, which is that of our English version, 
seems preferable, and is more expressive. To bend a strong bow was 
anclently considered a proof of great strength, much more to compress it 
so as to break it. To bend a bow of brass is still more i ener and still 


more so to do it by the arms without requiring the assistance of the foot, 
which was then usually employed in making that effort. 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 293 


carrying on his wars than what men commonly possess, inas- 
much as his arms were sufliciently strong to break even bows of 
brass in pieces. True, he had by nature a vigorous and 
powerful bodily frame; but the Scripture describes him 
as a man of low stature, and the similitude itself which he 
here uses implies something surpassing the natural strength 
of man. In the following verse, he declares that it was 
by the grace of God alone that he had escaped, and been 
kept in perfect safety: Thou hast also given me the shield 
of thy salvation. By the phrase, the shield of God's salva- 
tion, he intimates, that if God had not wonderfully pre- 
served him, he would have been exposed unprotected to 
many deadly wounds; and thus God’s shield of salvation is 
tacitly opposed to all the coverings and armour with which 
he had been provided. He again ascribes his safety to the 
free goodness of God as its cause, which he says had increased 
him, or more and more carried him forward in the path of 
honour and success; for, by the word increase, he means a 
continuation and an unintermitted and ever growing aug- 
mentation of the tokens of the divine favour towards him. 

By the enlargement of his steps, he intimates that God had 
opened up to him an even and an accommodating pathway 
through places to which there was before no means of access ; 
for there is in the words an implied contrast between a large 
and spacious place and a narrow spot, out of which a person 
cannot move his foot. The meaning is, that when David 
was reduced to the greatest distress, and saw no way of 
escape, God had graciously brought him out of his straits 
and difficulties. This is a lesson which may be highly use- 
ful for correcting our distrust, Unless we see before us a 
beautiful and pleasant plain, in which the flesh may freely 
enjoy itself, we tremble as if the earth would sink under 
our feet. Let us, therefore, remember, that the office of 
enlarging our ways and making them level belongs to God, 
and is here justly ascribed to him. In short, the Psalmist 
subjoins the effect of this instance of the grace of God to- 
wards him, namely, that his feet had not staggered or slipped ; 
in other words, no resistance, adversity, or calamity, which 
had befallen him, had been able to deprive him of courage, 
or cast him into despair. 


294 COMMENTARY UPON — PSALM XVIII. 


37. I will pursue my enemies, and will overtake them ; nor will 
I return till I have consumed them. 

38. I have afflicted [or smitten] them, so that they were not able 
to rise ; they have fallen under my feet. 

39. Thou hast girded me with strength’ for the war ; thou hast 
bowed down my enemies under me. 

40. And thou hast given me the neck of my enemies, and those who 
hated me I have destroyed.* 


The point on which David insists so much is, that of 
showing from the effect or issue, that all his victories were 
to be traced to the favour of God; and from this it fol- 
lows that his cause was good and just. God, no doubt, 
sometimes grants successes even to the ungodly and wicked ; 
but he at length shows by the issue, that he was all the 
while opposed to them and their enemy. It is his servants 
alone who experience such tokens of his favour as he showed 
towards David, and he intends by these to testify that they 
are approved and accepted by him. Weare apt to think that 
David here speaks too much after the manner ofa soldier, in 
declaring that he will not cease from the work of slaughter until 
he has destroyed all his enemies; or rather that he has for- 
gotten the gentleness and meekness which ought to shine in | 
all true believers, and in which they should resemble their 
heavenly Father; but as he attempted nothing without the 
command of God, and as his affections were governed and 
regulated by the Holy Spirit, we may be assured that these 
are not the words of a man who was cruel, and who took 
pleasure in shedding blood, but of a man who faithfully exe- 
cuted the judgment which God had committed to him. And, 
indeed, we know that he was so distinguished for gentleness 
of disposition as to abhor the shedding of even a single drop 
of blood, except in so far as duty and the necessity of his 
office required. We must, therefore, take into consideration 
David's vocation, and also his pure zeal, which was free from 
all perturbation of the flesh. Moreover, it should be parti- 
cularly attended to, that the Psalmist here calls those his 


1 “To be well girt was to be well armed in the Greek and Latin idioms, 
as well as in the Hebrew.”—-Dr Geddes, 


? In the French version it is, “Tu les as destruits ;"—‘t Thou hast de- 
stroyed them.” 





~ 


PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 295 


enemies whose indomitable and infatuated obstinacy merited 
and called forth such vengeance from God. As he repre- 
sented the person of Christ, he inflicted the punishment of 
death only on those who were so inflexible that they could 
not be reduced to order by the exercise of a mild and humane 


authority ; and this of itself shows, that there was nothing 


in which he more delighted than to pardon those who repent- 
ed and reformed themselves. He thus resembled Christ, who 
gently allures all men to repentance, but breaks in pieces, 
with his iron rod, those who obstinately resist him to the last. 
The sum of these verses is, that David, as he fought under 
the authority of God, being chosen king by him, and engag- 
ing in no undertaking without his warrant, was assisted by 
him, and rendered invincible against the assaults of all his 
enemies, and enabled even to discomfit vast and very power- 
ful armies. Farther, let us remember, that under this type 
there is shadowed forth the invincible character and condi- 
tion of the kingdom of Christ, who, trusting to, and sustained 
by, the power of God, overthrows and destroys his enemies, 
—who, in every encounter, uniformly comes off victorious,— 
and who continues king in spite of all the resistance which 
the world makes to his authority and power. And as the 
victories secured to him involve a security of similar victories 
to us, it follows that there is here promised us an impreg- 
nable defence against all the efforts of Satan, all the machina- 
tions of sin, and all the temptations of the flesh. Although, 
therefore, Christ can only obtain a tranquil kingdom by 
fighting, let us not on that account be troubled, but let 
it be enough to satisfy us, that the hand of God is always 
ready to be stretched forth for its preservation. David was, 
for a time, a fugitive, so that it was with difficulty he could 
save his life, by taking shelter in the dens of wild beasts ; 
but God, at length, made his enemies turn their backs, and 
not only put them to flight, but also delivered them over to 
him, that he might pursue and utterly discomfit them. In 
like manner, our enemies for a time may be, as it were, just 
ready to put the knife to our throat’ to destroy us, but God, 


1 “ Comme tous prests 4 nous mettre le cousteau sur la gorge.” —Fr. 


296 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XYIII. 


at length, will make them not only to flee before us, but also 
to perish in our presence, as they deserve. At the same time, 
let us remember what kind of warfare it is to which God is 
calling us, against what kind of persons he will have us to 
contend, and with what armour he furnishes us, that it may 
suffice us to have the devil, the flesh, and sin overthrown and 
placed under our feet by his spiritual power. With respect to 
those to whom he has given the power of the sword, he will 
also defend them, and not suffer them to be unrighteously 
opposed, provided they reign under Christ, and acknowledge 
him as their head. As to the words, interpreters almost 
unanimously render the beginning of the 40th verse, My 
enemies have turned the back, a phrase of the same import as, 
They have been put to flight; but as the Hebrew word yy, 
oreph, properly signifies the head or neck, we may very suit- 
ably view the words as meaning that God gave David the 
neck of his enemies, inasmuch as he delivered them into his 
hands to be slain. 


41. They shall cry, but there shall be no saviour for them ; even 
unto Jehovah, but he shall not answer them. 

42. And I will beat [or grind] them small as the dust which is 
driven by the wind ; as the mire of the streets I will 
tread them under foot. 

43. Thou shalt deliver me from the contentions of the people ; 
thou shalt make me the head of the nations ; a people whom 
I hawe not known shall serve me. 

_ 44, At the hearing of the ear,* they shall obey me ; the children 
of strangers® shall lie to me.* 

45. The children of strangers shall lose their courage, and 
tremble out of their places of concealment. 


41. They shall cry, &c. The change of the tense in the 
verb from the past to the future does not break the conti- 


1 Qui est jette par le vent.”—Fr. 7 

2 “ Si tost que le bruit de mon nom viendra a leurs aureilles.”—Note, 
Fr. marg. ‘ That is, as soon as the fame of my name reaches their ears.’ 

8 « Les peuples estranges.”—Note, F'r. marg. ‘“* That is, strange peoples, 
or foreign nations.” ; 

4 “ Feront semblant d’estre des miens s’humilians de in ae 
Fr. marg. “That is, shall feign to be my servants, [or submission to 
humbling themselves through fear.” 





= 


PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 297 


nuity of the narration; and, therefore, the words should 
be explained thus: Although they cried to God, yet their 
prayers were rejected by him. He pursues the same subject 
which it was his object to illustrate before, namely, that it 
was at length manifest from the issue that his enemies false- 
ly boasted of having the support and countenance of God, 
who showed that he had turned away from them. It is true, 
that when their affairs continued to go on prosperously, they 
sometimes received such applause and commendation, that it 
was commonly believed that God was favourable to them, 
while, at the same time, he seemed to be opposed to David, 
who, although he cried night and day to him, found it of no 
avail. But after God had sufficiently tried the patience of 
his servant, he cast them down, and disappointed them of 
their vain hope; yea, rather he would not deign to hear 
their prayers. We now perceive the design of David in 
these words. As the ungodly had long wickedly abused the 
name of God, by pretending that he favoured their unjust 
proceedings, the Psalmist derides their vain boasting, in 
which they were completely disappointed. It is to be 
observed, that he here speaks of hypocrites, who never call 
upon God in sincerity and truth. For this promise shall 
never fail, “ The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon 
him, to all that call upon him in truth,” (Ps. exlv. 18.) 
Dayid does not, therefore, say that his enemies were repulsed 
when they had recourse to God with sincere affection of 
heart, but only when, with their accustomed effrontery, 
they thought that God was, so to speak, bound to conduct 
and advance their wicked enterprises. When the ungodly, 
in the extremity of their distress, pour forth prayers, and 
when, cast down with fear, and trembling with the dread of 
impending evils, they show an appearance of humility, they, 
notwithstanding, do not change their purpose, so as truly to 
repent and amend the evil of their ways. Besides, instead 
of being influenced by faith, they are actuated by presump- 
tion and hardness of heart, or they pour forth their complaints 
in doubt, rather for the purpose of murmuring against God, 
than of familiarly and confidently placing their trust in him. 


From this passage we may gather a profitable warning, 


298 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. — 


namely, that all who treat the afflicted poor with cruel mock-— 
ery, and who proudly thrust back those who come to them 
as humble suppliants, will experience that God is deaf to their 
prayers. We are farther taught by the following verse, that 
after God has cast off the ungodly, he leaves them to be treated 
with every kind of indignity, and gives them up to be trampled 
under foot, as the mire of the streets. He not only declares, 
that when the proud and the cruel ery to him in their afflie- 
tion, he will shut his ears against their cry; but he also 
threatens, that, in the course of his retributive providence, 
they shall be treated in the same manner in which they treat 
others. 


43. Thou shalt deliver me from the contentions of the people. 
David states, in a few words, that he had experienced the 
assistance of God in all variety of ways. He was in great 
danger from the tumults which sometimes arose among his own 
subjects, if God had not wonderfully allayed them, and subdued 
the fierceness of the people. It also happened, contrary to 
the general expectation, that David, as is stated in the second 
clause of the verse, was victorious far and wide, and overthrew 
the neighbouring nations who had a little before discomfited 
all Israel by their forces. It was an astonishing renovation 
of things, when he not only suddenly restored to their former _ 
estate the people of Israel, who had been greatly reduced by 
defeat and slaughter, but also made his tributaries the neigh- 
bouring nations, with whom before, on account of their hostility 
to the nation of Israel, it was impossible to live in peace. It 
would have been much to see the kingdom, after haying sus- 
tained so grievous a calamity, still surviving, and after having 
again collected strength recovering its former state ; but God, 
contrary to all expectation, conferred upon the people of Israel 
more than this; he enabled them even to subdue those who 
before had been their conquerors. David makes mention of © 
both these; he tells us, in the first place, that when the people 
rose up in tumult against him, it was none other but God 
who stilled these commotions which took place within the king- _ 
dom ; and, in the second place, that it was under the authority, — 
and by the conduct and power of God, that powerful nations 


% 





PSALM XVIII. $$ THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 299 


were subjected to him, and that the limits of the kingdom, 
which, in the time of Saul, had been weak and half broken, 
were greatly enlarged. Hence it is evident that David was 
assisted by God, not less with respect to his domestic affairs, 
that is to say, within his own kingdom, than against foreign 
enemies. As the kingdom of David was a type under which 
the Holy Spirit intended to shadow forth to us the kingdom 
of Christ, let us remember that, both in erecting and preserv- 
ing it, it is necessary for God not only to stretch forth his 
arm and fight against avowed enemies, who from without 
rise up against him, but also to repress the tumults and 
strifes which may take place within the Church. This was 
clearly shown in the person of Christ from the beginning. 
In the first place, he met with much opposition from the 
infatuated obstinacy of those of his own nation. In the next 
place, the experience of all ages shows that the dissensions 
and strifes with which hypocrites rend and mangle the 
Church, are not less hurtful in undermining the kingdom of 
Christ, (if God do not interpose his hand to prevent their 
injurious effects,) than the violent efforts of his enemies. 
Accordingly God, to advance and maintain the kingdom of 
his own Son, not only overthrows before him external ene- 
mies, but also delivers him from domestic contentions; that 
is to say, from those within his kingdom, which is the Church.! 
In the song in 2d Samuel, instead of these words, Thou hast 
made me the head of the nations, the word employed is 
‘NDWN, tishmerent, which signifies to keep or guard, and is 
therefore to be understood in this sense, that David will be 
securely, and for a long time, maintained in possession of 
the kingdom. He knew how difficult it is to keep under 
discipline and subjection those who have not been accus- 
tomed to the yoke; and, accordingly, nothing is of more 
frequent occurrence than for kingdoms which have been 
lately acquired by conquest to be shaken with fresh commo- 
tions. But David, in the song in Samuel, declares that God, 
having elevated him to such a high degree of power as to 
make him the head of the nations, will also maintain him in 


1  C’est & dire au dedans de son royaume qui est I’Eglise.”—Fr. 


300 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


the possession of the sovereignty he had been pleased to con-— 
fer upon him. 

A people whom I have not known shall serve me. The er 
of this passage strongly confirms what I have just now 
touched upon, that the statements here made are not to be 
restricted to the person of David, but contain a prophecy 
respecting the kingdom of Christ which was to come. 
David, it is true, might have boasted that nations, with 
whose manners and dispositions he was only very imperfectly 
acquainted, were subject to him ; but it is nevertheless certain, 
that none of the nations which he conquered were altogether 
unknown to him, nor removed at so great a distance as to 
render it difficult for him to acquire some knowledge of them. 
The conquests of David, therefore, and the submission of the 
people to him, were only an obscure figure in which God has 
exhibited to us some faint representation of the boundless 
dominion of his own Son, whose kingdom extends “ from the 
rising of the sun, even unto the going down of the same,” 
(Mal. i. 11,) and comprehends the whole world. 


44, At the simple fame of my name they shall obey me. This is 
of the same import with the last clause of the preceding verse. 
Although David, by his victories, had acquired such reputa- 
tion and renown, that many laid down their arms and came 
voluntarily to surrender themselves to him; yet, as they also 
had been subdued through the dread of the power of his arms, 
which they saw their neighbours had -experienced to their 
smart, it cannot be said, properly speaking, that at the simple 
fame of the name of David they submitied themselves to him. 
This applies more truly to the person of Christ, who, by means 
of his word, subdues the world to himself, and, at the simple 
hearing of his name, makes those obedient to him who before 
had been rebels against him. As Dayid was intended to be 
a type of Christ, God subjected to his authority distant 
nations, and such as before had been unknown to Israel in so 
far as familiar intercourse was concerned. But that was only 
a prelude, and, as it were, preparatory to the dominion pro- 
mised to Christ, the boundaries of which must be extended 
to the uttermost ends of the earth. In like manner, Dayid 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 301 


had acquired to himself so great a name by arms and war- 
like prowess, that many of his enemies, subdued by fear, 
submitted themselves to him. And in this God exhibited 
a type of the conquest which Christ would make of the 
Gentiles, who, by the preaching of the Gospel alone, were 
subdued, and brought voluntarily to submit to his dominion ; 
for the obedience of faith in which the dominion of Christ is 
founded “ cometh by hearing,” (Rom. x. 17.) 

The children of strangers shail le to me. Here there is 
described what commonly happens in new dominions acquir- 
ed by conquest, namely, that those who have been vanquish- 
ed pay homage with great reverence to their conqueror ; but it 
is by a feigned and forced humility. They obey in a slavish 
manner, and not willingly or cheerfully. This is evidently 
the sense. Some interpreters, indeed, give a different expla- 
nation of the word die, viewing David as meaning by it that 
his enemies had either been disappointed in their expectation, 
or that, in order to escape the punishment which they were 
afraid he might inflict upon them, they had lied in declaring 
that they had never devised any thing hostile against him ; but 
it appears to me, that this does not sufficiently express what 
David intended. In my opinion, therefore, the words ¢o lie are 

. here to be understood generally as in other places, for to be 
humbled after a slavish manner. The Hebrew word wo, 
cachash, here used, which signifies to lie, is sometimes to be 
understood metaphorically for to be humbled, to submit to, to take 
upon one’s self the yoke of subjection ;' but still in a feigned and 
servile manner. Those whom he terms the children of the 
stranger, or of strangers, are the nations who did not belong to 
the people of Israel, but who, previous to their being con- 
quered by him, formed a distinct and an independent com- 
munity by themselves. This also we see fulfilled in Christ, 
to whom many come with apparent humility ; not, however, 
with true affection, but with a double and false heart, whom, 
on that account, the Holy Spirit fitly terms strangers. They 
are, indeed, mingled among the chosen people, but they 


1 The Syriac version reads, ‘“* They shall submit themselves to me ;” 
meaning a forced, and so a feigned and hypocritical subjection. 


302 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XYIIT. 


are not united to the same body with them by a true faith, 
and, therefore, ought not to be accounted children of the 
Church. It is very true that all the Gentiles, when in the 
beginning they were called into the Church, were strangers ; 
but when they began to entertain new feelings and new 
affections towards Christ, they who before were “ strangers 
and foreigners” became “ fellow-citizens with the saints, and 
of the household of God,” (Eph. ii. 19.) 

What is added immediately after, (verse 45,) the children 
of strangers shall fade away ; they shall tremble! from within 
their places of concealment, serves to place, in a still more 
striking light, the great fame and formidable name which we 
have said David had acquired. It is no ordinary sign of 
reverence when those who are protected in hiding-places, 
and shut up within steep fortifications, are so stricken with 
terror as to come forth of their own accord and surrender 
themselves. As fear made the enemies of David to come 
forth from their places of concealment, to meet him with 
submission, so the Gospel strikes the unbelieving with such 
fear, as compels them to yield obedience to Christ. Such is 
the power of prophecy, that is to say, the preaching of the 
word, as Paul testifies in 1 Cor. xiv. 24, that, convincing the 
consciences of men, and making manifest the secrets of their 
hearts, it causes those who before were rebels to prostrate 
themselves with fear, and to give glory to God. 


1 The Hebrew word 1, charag, signifies both to be moved and to 
tremble, and combining both ideas, to move fearfully. The last appears to 
be the view which Calvin attaches to the word. “ Fear shall cause them 
to be afraid, and come forth of their secret holes and holds, to seek par- 
don.”—Note, Bassandyne’s Bible. 

Walford reads, 


“ The sons of the stranger lose their strength ; 
Through alarm they quit their strongholds.” 


Street reads, 


‘‘ Foreign nations are confounded, and they shudder within their fort- 
resses,” 






iii te ee ae 





——— EE lites 


— on 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 303 


_ 46. Let Jehovah live,’ and blessed be my strength :* and let the 
God of my salvation be exalted ; 

47. The God who giveth me vengeance, and subdueth peoples [or 
nations] under me. 

48. My deliverer from my enemies ; yea, thou hast lifted me up 
from those who had risen up against me; thou hast 
delivered me from the man of violence. 

49. Therefore will I praise thee, O Jehovah, among the heathen, 
and will sing to thy name. 

50. He worketh great deliverances for his king, and showeth 
mercy to David, his anointed, and to his seed for ever. 


46. Let Jehovah live. If it is thought proper to adopt this 
reading, which is in the optative mood, expressing a wish that 
God might live, the manner of expression may seem some- 
what strange ; but it may be alleged in defence of it, that it 
is a metaphor borrowed from the custom of men, who not 
only use this manner of speaking when they wish well to 
any one, but likewise utter it with loud and applauding 
acclamation, when they intend to receive their princes with 
due honour. According to this view, it would be an expres- 
sion in which praise is ascribed to God, and suitable for a 
triumphal song.* It may, however, be very properly consi- 
dered as a simple affirmation, in which David declares that 
God lives, in other words, that he is endued with sovereign 
power. Farther, the life which David attributes to God is 
not to be restricted to the being or essence of God, but is 
rather to be understood of the evidence of it deducible from 
his works, which manifest to us that he liveth. Whenever 
he withdraws the working of his power from before our 
eyes, the sense and cognizance of the truth, “ God liveth,” 
also evanishes from our minds. He is, therefore, said ¢o live, 
inasmuch as he shows, by evident proofs of his power, that it 
is he who preserves and upholds the world. And as David 
had known, by experience, this life of God, he celebrates it 
with praises and thanksgiving. If we read the first clause 
in the present tense, The Lord liveth, the copula and, which 


¥ * Ou, le Seigneur vit."—Fr. marg. ‘ Or, Jehovah lives.” 
as Celuy qui me donne force.”—Note, Fr. marg. “ That is, he who 
giveth me strength 
sad ogi ce seroit un mot tendant  louér Dieu et convenable a un can- 
tique de triomphe.”—/r. 


304 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


follows, has the force of an inference ; and, accordingly, the 
words should be resolved thus :—Jehovah liveth, and, there- 
Sore, blessed be my strength. The epithet, My strength, and 
the other which occurs in verse 48th, My deliverer, confirm _ 
what I have already stated, that God does not simply live in — 
himself, and in his secret place, but displays his vital energy 
in the government of the whole world. The Hebrew word, 
"8, ¢tsuri, which we have translated my strength, is here 
to be understood in a transitive sense for Him who bestows 
strength. 


47. The God who giveth me vengeance. The Psalmist again 
attributes to God the victories which he had obtained. As 
he could never have expected to obtain them unless he had 
been confident that he would receive the aid of God, so now 
he acknowledges God to be the sole author of them. That 
he may not seem carelessly to bestow upon him, as it were, 
in passing, only a small sprinkling of the praise of his vieto- 
ries, he repeats, in express terms, that he had nothing but 
what God had given him. In the first place, he acknowledges 
that power was given him from above, to enable him to inflict 
on his enemies the punishment which they deserved. It 
may seem at first sight strange that God should arm his own 
people to execute vengeance ; but as I have previously shown 
you, we ought always to remember Dayid’s vocation. He was 
not a private person, but being endued with royal power and 
authority, the judgment which he executed was enjoined 
upon him by God. Ifa man, upon receiving injury, breaks 
forth to avenge himself, he usurps the office of God; and, 
therefore, it is rash and impious for private individuals to 
retaliate the injuries which have been inflicted upon them. 
With respect to kings and magistrates, God, who declares 
that vengeance belongeth to him, in arming them with the 
sword, constitutes them the ministers and executioners of 
his vengeance. David, therefore, has put the word vengeance 
for the just punishments which it was lawful for him to 
inflict by the commandment of God, provided he was led 
under the influence of a zeal duly regulated by the Holy 
Spirit, and not under the influence of the impetuosity of the — 





PSALM XVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 805 


flesh. Unless this moderation is exemplified in performing the 
duties of their calling, it is in vain for kings to boast that God 
‘has committed to them the charge of taking vengeance; 
seeing it is not less unwarrantable for a man to abuse, accord- 
ing to his own fancy and the lust of the flesh, the sword 
which he is allowed to use, than to seize it without the com- 
~ mand of God. The Church militant, which is under the 
standard of Christ, has no permission to execute vengeance, 
except against those who obstinately refuse to be reclaimed. 
We are commanded to endeavour to overcome our enemies 
by doing them good, and to pray for their salvation. It 
becomes us, therefore, at the same time, to desire that they 
may be brought to repentance, and to a right state of mind, 
until it appear beyond all doubt that they are irrecoverably 
and hopelessly depraved. In the meantime, in regard to 
vengeance, it must be left to God, that we may not be car- 
ried headlong to execute it before the time. David next 
concludes, from the perils and distresses in which he had 
been involved, that if he had not been preserved by the hand 
of God, he could not in any other way have escaped in 
safety: My deliverer from my enemies ; yea, thou hast lifted 
me up from those who had risen up against me. The sense in 
which we are to understand the lifting up of which he speaks 
is, that he was wonderfully raised up above the power and 
malice of his enemies that he might not sink under their vio- 
lence, and that they might not be victorious over him. 


49. Therefore will I praise thee, O Jehovah! In this verse 
he teaches us that the blessings God had conferred upon him, 
of which he had spoken, are worthy of being celebrated with 
extraordinary and unusual praises, that the fame of them 
might reach even the heathen. There is in the words an 
implied contrast between the ordinary worship of God which 
the faithful were then accustomed to perform in the temple, 
and this thanksgiving of which David speaks, which could 
not be confined within so narrow limits. The meaning, 
therefore, is, O Lord, I will not only give thee thanks in the 
assembly of thy people, according to the ritual which thou 
hast appointed in thy law, but thy praises shall extend to 
: VOL. I. U 


806 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XVIII. 


a greater distance, even as thy grace towards me is worthy — 
of being recounted through the whole world. Moreover, 
from these words we conclude that this passage contains a 
prophecy concerning the kingdom of Christ, which was to 
come. Unless the heathen had been allured into the fellow- 
ship of the chosen people, and united into one body with 
them, to praise God among them would have been to sing 
his praises among the deaf, which would have been foolish 
work and lost labour. Accordingly, Paul very properly 
‘and suitably proves from this text, that the calling of the 
Gentiles was not a thing which happened by chance, or at 
a venture, (Rom. xy. 9.) We shall afterwards see in many 
places that the Church is appointed to be the sacred dwell- 
ing-place for showing forth the praises of God. And, there- 
fore, the name of God could not have been rightly and pro- 
fitably celebrated elsewhere than in Judea, until the ears 
of the Gentiles were opened, which was done when God 
adopted them, and called them to himself by the gospel. 


50. He worketh great deliverances, §c. This concluding 
verse clearly shows why God had exercised such goodness 
and liberality towards David, namely, because he had 
anointed him to be king. By calling himself God’s hing, 
David testifies that he had not rashly rushed into that office, 
nor was thrust into it by conspiracies and wicked intrigues, 
but, on the contrary, reigned by lawful right, inasmuch as it 
was the will of God that he should be king. This he proves 
by the ceremony of anointing ; for God, in anointing him by 
the hand of Samuel, had asserted his right to reign not less 
than if he had visibly stretched forth his hand from heayen 
to place and establish him on the royal throne. This election, 
he says, was confirmed by a continued series of great deliver- 
ances; and from this it follows, ‘that all who enter on any 
course without having the call of God, are chargeable with 
avowedly making war against him. At the same time, he 
attributes these deliverances to the goodness of God as their 
cause, to teach us, that that kingdom was founded purely 
and simply upon the good pleasure of God. Farther, from 
the concluding sentence of the psalm, it appears, as I 
have said before, that David does not here so much recount 





PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 307 


by way of history the singular and varied instances of 
the grace of God which he had personally experienced, as 
predict the everlasting duration of his kingdom. And it is to 
be observed, that by the word seed we are not to understand 
all his descendants indiscriminately ; but we are to consider 
it as particularly referring to that successor of David of 
whom God had spoken in 2 Samuel vii. 12, promising that 
he would be a father to him. As it had been predicted that 
his kingdom would continue as long as the sun and the moon 
should shine in the heavens, the prophecy must necessarily 
be viewed as descending to him who was to be king not for a 
time, but for ever. David, therefore, commends his seed to 
us, as honoured by that remarkable promise, which fully 
applies neither to Solomon nor to any other of his successors, 
but to the only begotten Son of God; as the apostle, in his 
Epistle to the Hebrews, (chap. i. 4,) teaches us, that this is 
a dignity in which he excels the angels. In conclusion, we 
shall then only duly profit in the study of this psalm, when 
we are led by the contemplation of the shadow and type to 
him who is the substance. 


PSALM XIX. 


David, with the view of encouraging the faithful to contemplate the glory 
of God, sets before them, in the first place, a mirror of it in the fabric 
of the heavens, and in the exquisite order of their workmanship which 
we behold; and, in the second place, he recalls our thoughts to the 
Law, in which God made himself more familiarly known to his chosen 

Taking occasion from this, he continues to discourse at con- 
siderable length on this peculiar gift of Heaven, commending and 
exalting the use of the Law. Finally, he concludes the psalm with a 
prayer. 

{| To the chief musician. A song of David. 


1. The heavens declare the glory of God ; and the expanse? pro- 
claims the works of his hands. 


_ 4 Dentour du ciel et de l’air.”— Note, Fr. marg. ‘ That is, the cope 
‘or vault of the heaven and of the air.” Bishop Mant reads also expanse, 


. 


ma 
“>. 
ee 
> 


308 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


2. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night publishes 
knowledge.' 

3. There is no language and no speech [where] their voice is not 
heard. 

4. Their writing has gone forth through all the earth, and their 
words to the end of the world: he hath set in them a taber- 
nacle for the sun. 

5. And he goeth forth as a bridegroom out of his chamber : he 
rejoiceth as a strong man to run his race. 

6. His going forth is from the end of the heavens, and his circuit 
is to their utmost limits, and none is hidden from his heat. 


1. The heavens declare the glory of God 1 have already 
said, that this psalm consists of two parts, in the first of 
which David celebrates the glory of God as manifested in 
his works ; and, in the other, exalts and magnifies the know- 
ledge of God which shines forth more clearly in his word. 
He only makes mention of the heavens; but, under this part 
of creation, which is the noblest, and the excelleney of which 
is more conspicuous, he doubtless includes by synecdoche the 
whole fabric of the world. There is certainly nothing so 
obscure or contemptible, even in the smallest corners of the 
earth, in which some marks of the power and wisdom of 
God may not be seen; but as a more distinct image of him 
is engraven on the heavens, David has particularly selected 
them for contemplation, that their splendour might lead us 
to contemplate all parts of the world. When a man, from 
beholding and contemplating the heavens, has been brought 
to acknowledge God, he will learn also to reflect upon and 
to admire his wisdom and power as displayed on the face of 


which he considers more correct than firmament. “The latter word,” 
says he, ‘is adopted from the Greek version ; but the Hebrew word is 
derived from a verb, signifying to spread abroad, stretch forth, extend, 
expand. The proper rendering therefore is, ‘ expanse,’ agreeably to other 
assages of Scripture which speak of the Creator as ‘stretching out the 

eaves as a curtain, and spreading them out as a tent to dwell in.’ (See 
Ps. civ. 2; Is. xl. 22.) The expanse of heaven’ is a frequent phrase 
with Milton, as with other poets.” . ? 

1 “ Un jour desgorge propos & [autre jour, et la nuict declare science 
a autre nuict."—/r. ‘ One day uttereth speech to another day, and the 
night declares knowledge to another night.” 

? Dr Geddes has remarked, in reference to this psalm, that ‘‘ no poem 
ever contained a finer argument against Atheism, nor one better ex- 
pressed.” 





PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 309 


the earth, not only in general, but even in the minutest 
plants. In the first verse, the Psalmist repeats one thing 
twice, according to his usual manner. He introduces the 
heavens as witnesses and preachers of the glory of God, 
attributing to the dumb creature a quality which, strictly 
speaking, does not belong to it, in order the more severely to 
upbraid men for their ingratitude, if they should pass over 
so clear a testimony with unheeding ears. This manner of 
speaking more powerfully moves and affects us than if he had 
said, The heavens show or manifest the glory of God. It is 
indeed a great thing, that in the splendour of the heavens 
there is presented to our view a lively image of God ; but, as 
the living voice has a greater effect in exciting our attention, 
or at least teaches us more surely and with greater profit than 
simple beholding, to which no oral instruction is added, we 
ought to mark the force of the figure which the Psalmist 
uses when he says, that the heavens by their preaching de- 
clare the glory of God. 

The repetition which he makes in the second clause is 
merely an explanation of the first. David shows how it is 
that the heavens proclaim to us the glory of God, namely, 
by openly bearing testimony that they have not been put 
together by chance, but were wonderfully created by the 
supreme Architect. When we behold the heavens, we cannot 
but be elevated, by the contemplation of them, to Him who 
is their great Creator; and the beautiful arrangement and 
wonderful variety which distinguish the courses and station 
of the heavenly bodies, together with the beauty and splen- 
dour which are manifest in them, cannot but furnish us with 
an evident proof of his providence. Scripture, indeed, makes 
known to us the time and manner of the creation; but the 
heavens themselves, although God should say nothing on 
the subject, proclaim loudly and distinctly enough that they 
have been fashioned by his hands: and this of itself abund- 
antly suffices to bear testimony to men of his glory. As soon 
as we acknowledge God to be the supreme Architect, who has 
erected the beauteous fabric of the universe, our minds must 
necessarily be ravished with wonder at his infinite goodness, 
wisdom, and power. 


310 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


2. Day unto day uttereth speech. Philosophers, who have 
more penetration into those matters than others, understand 
how the stars are arranged in such beautiful order, that not- 
withstanding their immense number there is no confusion ; 
but to the ignorant and unlettered, the continual succession 
of days is a more undoubted proof of the providence of God. 
David, therefore, having spoken of the heavens, does not here 
descend from them to other parts of the world ; but, from an 
effect more sensible and nearer our apprehension, he confirms 
what he has just now said, namely, that the glory of God 
not only shines, but also resounds in the heavens. The words 
may be variously expounded, but the different expositions 
which have been given of them make little difference as 
to the sense. Some explain them thus, that no day passes 
in which God does not show some signal evidence of his 
power. Others are of opinion that they denote the augmen- 
tations of instruction and knowledge,—that every sueceeding 
day contributes something new in proof of the existence and - 
perfections of God. Others view them as meaning that the 
days and nights talk together, and reason concerning the 
glory of their Creator; but this is a somewhat forced 
interpretation. David, I have no doubt, here teaches, from 
the established alternations of days and nights, that the 
course and revolutions of the sun, and moon, and stars, 
are regulated by the marvellous wisdom of God. Whe- 
ther we translate the words Day after day, or one day to 
another day, is of little consequence; for all that David 
means is the beautiful arrangement of time which the 
succession of days and nights effects. If, indeed, we were 
as attentive as we ought to be, even one day would suffice 
to bear testimony to us of the glory of God, and even one 
night would be sufficient to perform to us the same office. 
But when we see the sun and the moon performing their 
daily revolutions,—the sun by day appearing over our heads, 
and the moon succeeding in its turn,—the sun ascending by 
degrees, while at the same time he approaches nearer us, 
—and afterwards bending his course so as to depart from us by 
little and little ;—and when we see that by this means the 





‘PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 311 
length of the days and nights is regulated, and that the 
variation of their length is arranged according to a law so 
uniform, as invariably to recur at the same points of time in 
every successive year, we have in this a much brighter 
testimony to the glory of God. David, therefore, with 
the highest reason, declares, that although God should not 


speak a single word to men, yet the orderly and useful suc- 


cession of days and nights eloquently proclaims the glory 
of God, and that there is now left to men no pretext for 
ignorance ; for, since the days and nights perform towards us 
so well and so carefully the office of teachers, we may 
acquire, if we are duly attentive, a sufficient amount of 
knowledge under their tuition. 


3. There is no language nor speech [where] their voice is not 
heard. This verse receives two almost contrary interpreta- 
tions, each of which, however, has the appearance of proba- 
bility. As the words, when rendered literally, read thus— 
No language, and no words, their voice is not heard—some 
connect the third and fourth verses together, as if this sen- 
tence were incomplete without the clause which follows in 
the beginning of the fourth verse, Their writing has gone 
forth through all the earth, &c. According to them, the 
meaning is this:—The heavens, it is true, are mute, and 
are not endued with the faculty of speech; but still they 
proclaim the glory of God with a voice sufficiently loud and 
distinct. But if this was David’s meaning, what need was 
there to repeat three times that they have not articulate 
speech? It would certainly be spiritless and superfluous to 
insist so much upon a thing so universally known. The other 
exposition, therefore, as it is more generally received, seems 
also to be more suitable. In the Hebrew tongue, which is 
concise, it is often necessary to supply some word ; and it is 
particularly a common thing in that language for the rela- 
tives to be omitted, that is to say, the words which, in which, 
&e., as here, There is no language, there is no speech, [where"} 


! Both Calvin and the translators of our English version appear to 
have followed the Septuagint and Vulgate versions in inserting the 


_ word where, which is not in the Hebrew text. 


312 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


their voice is not heard.' Besides, the third negation, 3, 


beli,? rather denotes an exception to what is stated in the 
preceding members of the sentence, as if it had been said, 
The difference and variety of languages does not prevent 
the preaching of the heavens and their language from 
being heard and understood in every quarter of the world. 
The difference of languages is a barrier which prevents dif- 
ferent nations from maintaining mutual intercourse, and it 
makes him who in his own country is distinguished for his 
eloquence, when he comes into a foreign country either 
dumb or, if he attempt to speak, barbarous. And even 
although a man could speak all languages, he could not speak 
to a Grecian and a Roman at the same time; for as soon as 
he began to direct his discourse to the one, the other would 
cease to understand him. David, therefore, by making a 
tacit comparison, enhances the efficacy of the testimony 
which the heavens bear to their Creator. The import of his 
language is, Different nations differ from each other as to 
language ; but the heavens have a common language to teach 
all men without distinction, nor is there any thing but their 
own carelessness to hinder even those who are most strange 
to each other, and who live in the most distant parts of the 
world, from profiting, as it were, at the mouth of the same 
teacher. 


4. Their writing has gone forth, &c. Here the inspired writer 
declares how theheavens preach to all nations indiscriminately, 
namely, because men, in all countries and in all parts of the 
earth, may understand that the heavens are set before their 
eyes as witnesses to bear testimony to the glory of God. As 
the Hebrew word Pp, hav, signifies sometimes a dine, and some- 


1 “ C'est ascavoir ces mots, Lequel, Laquelle, &c., comme ya Iln’ya 
langage, il n’y a paroles esquelles la voix d’iceux ne soit ouye.”—Fr. 

2'b3, beli, commonly signifies not ; but it is also often used for all sort 
of exclusive particles, without, besides, unless. Hence Grotius renders it 
here without. As Ss, bal, means in Arabic but, and as the Arabic is just 
a dialect of the Hebrew, Hammond concludes that this may have been its 
meaning among the Jews; and therefore prepoees) to render the verse 
thus :—“ Not , hor words, but, or notwi ing, (sa, beli,] their 
voice is, or has heard.” 





PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 313 


times a building, some deduce from it this meaning, that the 
fabric of the heavens being framed in a regular manner, and 
as it were by line, proclaims the glory of God in all parts of 
the world. But as David here metaphorically introduces 
the splendour and magnificence of the heavenly bodies, as 
preaching the glory of God like a teacher in a seminary of 
learning, it would be a meagre and unsuitable manner of 
speaking to say, that the line of the heavens goes forth to 
the uttermost ends of the earth. Besides, he immediately 
adds, in the following clause, that their words are every where 
heard ; but what relation is there between words and the 
beauty of a building? If, however, we render p, hav, writing, 
these two things will very well agree, first, that the glory of 
God is written and imprinted in the heavens, as in an open 
volume which all men may read ; and, secondly, that, at the 
same time, they give forth a loud and distinct voice, which 
reaches the ears of all men, and causes itself to be heard 
in all places.'' Thus we are taught, that the language of 
which mention has been made before is, as I may term it, a 
visible language, in other words, language which addresses 
itself to the sight; for it is to the eyes of men that the 
heavens speak, not to their ears; and thus David justly 


~ compares the beautiful order and arrangement, by which the 


heavenly bodies are distinguished, to a writing. That the 
Hebrew word }), iav, signifies a line in writing,’ is sufti- 
ciently evident from Isaiah xxviii. 10, where God, comparing 
the Jews to children who are not yet of sufficient age to 


_ make great proficiency, speaks thus: “ For precept must be 


<= 


upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line 
upon line ; here a little, and there alittle.” In my judgment, 
therefore, the meaning is, that the glory of God is not writ- 
ten in small obscure letters, but richly engraven in large and 
bright characters, which all men may read, and read with 
the greatest ease. 


1“ Et se fait ouir en tous endroits.”—Fr. 
2 The reading in the English Geneva Bible is, ‘* Their line is gone forth 
all the cha na ae were ot re ends of the — d.” The 
marginal note in explanation of this is, ‘‘ The heavens are as a line of great 
capital letters to show unto us God's glory.” 


314 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. — 


Hitherto I have explained the true and proper meaning 
of the inspired writer. Some have wrested this part of the 
psalm by putting upon it an allegorical interpretation ; but 
my readers will easily perceive that this has been done with- 
out reason. I have shown in the commencement, and it 
is also evident from the scope of the whole discourse, that 
Dayid, before coming to the law, sets before us the fabric of 
the world, that in it we might behold the glory of God. 
Now, if we understand the heavens as meaning the | 
and the sun Christ, there will be no longer place for the divi- _ 
sion of which we have spoken; and, besides, it would be an 
improper arrangement to place the gospel first and then the _ 
law. It is very evident that the inspired poet here treats of 
the knowledge of God, which is naturally presented to allmen _ 
in this world as in a mirror; and, therefore, I forbear discours- 
ing longer on that point. As, however, these allegorical inter- 
preters have supported their views from the words of Paul, 
this difficulty must be removed. Paul, in discoursing upon 
the calling of the Gentiles, lays down this as an established 
principle, that, “ Whoever shall call upon the name of the 
Lord, shall be saved ;” and then he adds, that it is impossible — 
for any to call upon him until they know him by the teach- 
ing of the gospel. But as it seemed to the Jews to bea — 
kind of sacrilege that Paul published the promise of salvation 
to the Gentiles, he asks whether the Gentiles themselves had — 
not heard? And he answers, by quoting this passage, that 
there was a school open and accessible to them, in which they 
might learn to fear God, and serve him, inasmuch as “ the — 
writing! of the heavens has gone forth through all the earth, 
and their words unto the ends of the world,” (Rom. x. 18.) _ 
But Paul could not at that time have said with truth, that 
the voice of the gospel had been heard through the whole — 
world from the mouth of the apostles, since it had scarcely 
as yet reached even a few countries. The preaching of the 
other apostles certainly had not then extended to far distant — 
parts of the world, but was confined within the boundaries 


















1 Paul reads, ‘ their sound,” quoting from the Septuagint, the version 
a. the Old Testament then chiefly used, and it employs here the we 
Pboyyos. 


PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 815 


of Judea. The design of the apostle it is not difficult to 
comprehend. He intended to say that God, from ancient 
times, had manifested his glory to the Gentiles, and that this 
was a prelude to the more ample instruction which was one 
day to be published to them. And although God’s chosen 
people for a time had been in a condition distinct and sepa- 
rate from that of the Gentiles, it ought not to be thought 
strange that God at length made himself known indiscrimi- 
nately to both, seeing he had hitherto united them to himself 
by certain means which addressed themselves in common 
to both; as Paul says in another passage, that when God, 
“ in times past, suffered all nations to walk in their own ways, 
he nevertheless left not himself without a witness,” (Acts 
xiv. 16, 17.) Whence we conclude, that those who have 
imagined that Paul departed from the genuine and proper 
sense of David’s words are grossly mistaken. The reader 
will understand this still more clearly by reading my com- 
mentaries on the above passage of St Paul. 

He hath set in them a tabernacle [or pavilion] for the sun. 
As David, out of the whole fabric of the world, has especially 
chosen the heavens, in which he might exhibit to our view 
an image of God, because there it is more distinctly to be 
seen, even as a man is better seen when set on an elevated 
stage; so now he shows us the sun as placed in the highest 
rank, because in his wonderful brightness the majesty 
of God displays itself more magnificently than in all the 
rest. The other planets, it is true, have also their motions, 
and as it were the appointed places within which they run 
their race,' and the firmament, by its own revolution, 
draws with it all the fixed stars, but it would have been 
lost time for David to have attempted to teach the secrets 
of astronomy to the rude and unlearned; and therefore 
he reckoned it sufficient to speak in a homely style, that he 
might reprove the whole world of ingratitude, if, in behold- 
ing the sun, they are not taught the fear and the knowledge 
of God. This, then, is the reason why he says that a tent 
or pavilion has been erected for the sun, and also why he 


1 “ Quasi stadia."—Zat. ‘* Comme des lices ordonnees dedans les 
~ quelles elles font leurs courses.” —Fr. 


316 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


says, that he goes forth from one end of the heayen, and 
quickly passes to the other and opposite end. He does not 
here discourse scientifically (as he might have done, had he 
spoken among philosophers) concerning the entire revolu- 
tion which the sun performs, but, accommodating himself to 
the rudest and dullest, he confines himself to the ordinary 
appearances presented to the eye, and, for this reason, he 
does not speak of the other half of the sun’s course, which 
does not appear in our hemisphere. He proposes’ to us three 
things to be considered in the sun,—the splendour and 
excellency of his form,—the swiftness with which he runs 
his course,—and the astonishing power of his heat. The 
more forcibly to express and magnify his surpassing beauty 
and, as it were, magnificent attire, he employs the similitude 
of a bridegroom. He then adds another similitude, that of 
a valiant man who enters the lists as a racer to carry off the 
prize of the course. The swiftness of those who in ancient 
times contended in the stadium, whether on chariots or on 
foot, was wonderful; and although it was nothing when com- 
pared with the velocity with which the sun moves in his 
orbit, yet David, among all that he saw coming under 
the ordinary notice of men, could find nothing which 
approached nearer to it. Some think that the third clause, 
where he speaks of the heat of the sun, is to be understood 
of his vegetative heat, as it is called; in other words, that by 
which the vegetating bodies which are in the earth haye 
their vigour, support, and growth.’ But I do not think that 
this sense suits the passage. It is, indeed, a wonderful work 
of God, and a signal evidence of his goodness, that the 
powerful influence of the sun penetrating the earth renders 
it fruitful. But as the Psalmist says, that no man or nothing 
is hidden from his heat, I am rather inclined to understand it of 
the violent heat which scorches men and other living crea- 
tures as well as plants and trees. With respect to the 
enlivening heat of the sun, by which we feel ourselves to be 
invigorated, no man desires to avoid it. 


1“ Aucuns l’entendent de sa chaleur vegetative, qu’on appelle, c'est a 


dire par laquelle ces choses basses ont vigueur, sont maintenues, et pre- 
nent accroissement.”—JF’r. 








PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 317 


7. The law of the Lord’ is perfect, restoring the soul ; the testi- 
mony of Jehovah is faithful, [or true, instructing the babe? 
in wisdom, 

8. The statutes of Jehovah are right, rejoicing the heart ; the 
commandment of the Lord * is pure, enlightening the eyes. 

9. The fear of Jehovah is clean, enduring for ever; the judg- 
ments of Jehovah are truth, and justified together. 


7. The law of the Lord. Here the second part of the psalm 
commences. After having shown that the creatures, although 
they do not speak, nevertheless serve as instructors to all man- 
kind, and teach all men so clearly that there is a God, as to 
render them inexcusable, the Psalmist now turns towards the 
Jews, to whom God had communicated a fuller knowledge 
of himself by means of his word. While the heavens bear 
witness concerning God, their testimony does not lead men 
so far as that thereby they learn truly to fear him, and ac- 
quire a well-grounded knowledge of him; it serves only to 
render them inexcusable. It is doubtless true, that if we 
were not very dull and stupid, the signatures and proofs of 
Deity which are to be found on the theatre of the world, are 
abundant enough to incite us to acknowledge and reverence 
God; but as, although surrounded with so clear a light, we 
are nevertheless blind, this splendid representation of the 
glory of God, without the aid of the word, would profit us 
nothing, although it should be to us as a loud and distinct 
proclamation sounding in our ears. Accordingly, God vouch- 
safes to those whom he has determined to call to salvation 
special grace, just as in ancient times, while he gave to all 
men without exception evidences of his existence in his 
works, he communicated to the children of Abraham alone 
his Law, thereby to furnish them with a more certain and 
intimate knowledge of his majesty. Whence it follows, that 
the Jews are bound by a double tie to serve God. As the 
Gentiles, to whom God has spoken only by the dumb crea- 


1 Here our author uses Dominus, but in the Hebrew text it is mn, 


Yehovah. 
2 In Tyndale’s Bible the reading is, “* And giveth wisdom even unto 
babes.” Babes is the word employed in most of the versions. 
_ %In the Hebrew text it is mn, Yehovah. 


318 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


tures, have no excuse for their ignorance, how much less is 
their stupidity to be endured who neglect to hear the voice 
which proceeds from his own sacred mouth? The end, 
therefore, which David here has in view, is to excite the 
Jews, whom God had bound to himself by a more sacred bond, 
to yield obedience to him with a more prompt and cheerful 
affection. Farther, under the term Jaw, he not only means 
the rule of living righteously, or the Ten Commandments, 
but he also comprehends the covenant by which God had 
distinguished that people from the rest of the world, and the 
whole doctrine of Moses, the parts of which he afterwards 
enumerates under the terms testimonies, statutes, and other 
names. ‘These titles and commendations by which he exalts 
the dignity and excellence of the Law would not agree with 
the Ten Commandments alone, unless there were, at the 
same time, joined to them a free adoption and the promises 
which depend upon it; and, in short, the whole body of 
doctrine of which true religion and godliness:consists. As to 
the Hebrew words which are here used, I will not spend 
much time in endeavouring very exactly to give the particular 
signification of each of them, because it is easy to gather 
from other passages, that they are sometimes confounded or 
used indifferently. MM)", eduth, which we render testimony, 
is generally taken for the covenant, in which God, on the 
one hand, promised to the children of Abraham that he would 
be their God, and on the other required faith and obedience 
on their part. It, therefore, denotes the mutual covenant 
entered into between God and his ancient people. The word 
Orns, pikkudim, which I have followed others in translat- 
ing statutes, is restricted by some to ceremonies, but impro- 
perly in my judgment : for I find that it is every where taken 


generally for ordinances and edicts. The word )¥S, mits-— 


vah, which follows immediately after, and which we translate 
commandment, has almost the same signification. As to the 
other words, we shall consider them in their respective 
places. 

The first commendation of the law of God is, that it is 
perfect. By this word David means, that if a man is duly 


instructed in the law of God, he wants nothing which is 





PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 319 


requisite to perfect wisdom. In the writings of heathen 
authors there are no doubt tobe found true and useful sen- 
tences scattered here and there ; and it is also true, that God 
has put into the minds of men some knowledge of justice 
and uprightness ; but in consequence of the corruption of our 
nature, the true light of truth is not to be found among men 
where revelation is not enjoyed, but only certain mutilated 
principles which are involved in much obscurity and doubt. 
Dayid, therefore, justly claims this praise for the law of God, 
that it contains in it perfect and absolute wisdom. As the 
conversion of the soul, of which he speaks immediately after, 
is doubtless to be understood of its restoration, I have felt no 
difficulty in so rendering it. There are some who reason 
with too much subtilty on this expression, by explaining it as 
referring to the repentance and regeneration of man. I 
admit that the soul cannot be restored by the law of God, 
without being at the same time renewed unto righteousness ; 
but we must consider what is David’s proper meaning, which 
is this, that as the soul gives vigour and strength to the 
body, so the law in like manner is the life of the soul. In 
saying that the soul is restored, he has an allusion to the 
miserable state in which we are all born. There, no doubt, still 
~ survive in us some small remains of the first creation; ‘but 
as no part of our constitution is free from defilement and 
impurity, the condition of the soul thus corrupted and 
depraved differs little from death, and tends altogether to 
death. It is, therefore, necessary that God should employ 
the law as a remedy for restoring us to purity; not that the 
letter of the law can do this of itself, as shall be afterwards 
shown more at length, but because God employs his word as 
an instrument for restoring our souls. 

When the Psalmist declares, The testimony of Jehovah is faith- 
ful, it isa repetition of the preceding sentence, so that the in- 
tegrity or perfection of the law, and the faithfulness or truth of his 
testimony, signify the same thing ; namely, that when we give 
ourselves up to be guided and governed by the word of God, 
we are in no danger of going astray, since this is the path by 
which he securely guides his own people to salvation. Jn- 
__ struction in wisdom seems here to be added as the commence- 


“7 


320 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


~~ 


ment of the restoration of the soul. Understanding is the most 
excellent endowment of the soul ; and David teaches us that it 
is to be derived from the law, for we are naturally destitute of 
it. By the word babes, he is not to be understood as meaning 
any particular class of persons, as if others were sufficiently 
wise of themselves; but by it he teaches us, in the first place, 
that none are endued with right understanding until they 
have made progress in the study of the law. In the second 
place, he shows by it what kind of scholars God requires, 
namely, those who are fools in their own estimation, (1 Cor. 
iii. 18,) and who come down to the rank of children, that the 
loftiness of their own understanding may not prevent them 
from giving themselves up, with a spirit of entire docility, to 
the teaching of the word of God. 


8. The statutes of Jehovah are right. The Psalmist at first 
view may seem to utter a mere common-place sentiment 
when he calls the statutes of the Lord right. If we, however, 
more attentively consider the contrast which he no doubt 
makes between the rectitude of the law and the crooked 
ways in which men entangle themselves when they follow 
their own understandings, we will be convinced that this — 
commendation implies more than may at first sight appear. 
We know how much every man is wedded to himself, and how 
difficult it is to eradicate from our minds the vain confidence 
of our own wisdom. It is therefore of great importance — 
to be well convinced of this truth, that a man’s life cannot — 
be ordered aright unless it is framed according to the law of 
God, and that without this he can only wander in labyrinths 
and crooked bypaths. David adds, in the second place, that 
God’s statutes rejoice the heart. This implies that there is no 
other joy true and solid but that which proceeds from a good 
conscience ; and of this we become partakers when we are cer- 
tainly persuaded that our life is pleasing and acceptable to 
God. No doubt, the source from which true peace of con- 
science proceeds is faith, which freely reconciles us to God. 
But to the saints who serve God with true affection of heart 
there arises unspeakable joy also, from the knowledge that 
they do not labour in his service in vain, or without hope of 





PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 321 


recompense, since they have God as the judge and approver 
of their life. In short, this joy is put in opposition to all 
the corrupt enticements and pleasures of the world, which 
are a deadly bait, luring wretched souls to their everlasting 
destruction. The import of the Psalmist’s language is, 
Those who take delight in committing sin procure for 
themselves abundant matter of sorrow; but the observance 
of the law of God, on the contrary, brings to man true 
joy. In the end of the verse, the Psalmist teaches that 
the commandment of God is pure, enlightening the eyes. By 
this he gives us tacitly to understand that it is only in the 
commandments of God that we find the difference between 
good and evil laid down, and that it is in vain to seek it 
elsewhere, since whatever men devise of themselves is mere 
filth and refuse, corrupting the purity of the life. He far- 
ther intimates that men, with all their acuteness, are blind, 
and always wander in darkness, until they turn their eyes to 
the light of heavenly doctrine. Whence it follows, that none 
are truly wise but those who take God for their conductor 
and guide, following the path which he points out to them, 
and who are diligently seeking after the peace which he 
offers and presents by his word. 

But here a question of no small difficulty arises; for Paul 
seems entirely to overthrow these commendations of the law 
which Dayid here recites. How can these things agree 
together: that the law restores the souls of men, while yet 
it is a dead and deadly letter? that it rejoices men’s hearts, 
and yet, by bringing in the spirit of bondage, strikes them 
with terror? that it enlightens the eyes, and yet, by casting 
a veil before our minds, excludes the light which ought to 
penetrate within? But, in the first place, we must remember 
what I haye shown you at the commencement, that Dayid 
does not speak simply of the precepts of the Moral Law, but 
comprehends the whole covenant by which God had adopted 
the descendants of Abraham to be his peculiar people; and, 
therefore, to the Moral Law—the rule of living well—he joins 
the free promises of salvation, or rather Christ himself, in 
whom and upon whom this adoption was founded. But Paul, 

who had to deal with persons who perverted and abused 
> ~VOL. 1. is 


322 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


the law, and separated it from the grace and the Spirit of — 
Christ, refers to the ministry of Moses viewed merely by 
itself, and according to the letter. It is certain, that if the 
Spirit of Christ does not quicken the law, the law is not only 
unprofitable, but also deadly to its disciples. Without Christ 
there is in the law nothing but inexorable rigour, which 
adjudges all mankind to the wrath and curse of God. And 
farther, without Christ, there remains within us a rebellious- 
ness of the flesh, which kindles in our hearts a hatred of 
God and of his law, and from this proceed the distressing 
bondage and awful terror of which the Apostle speaks. 
These different ways in which the law may be viewed, easily 
show us the manner of reconciling these passages of Paul and 
David, which seem at first view to be at variance. The 
design of Paul is to show what the law can do for us, taken 
by itself; that is to say, what it can do for us when, without 
the promise of grace, it strictly and rigorously exacts from 
us the duty which we owe to God; but David, in praising it 
as he here does, speaks of the whole doctrine of the law, 
which includes also the gospel, and, therefore, under the law 
he comprehends Christ. 


9. The fear of Jehovah is clean. By the fear of God we 
are here to understand the way in which God is to be served; 
and therefore it is taken in an active sense for the doctrine 
which prescribes to us the manner in which we ought to fear 
God. The way in which men generally manifest their fear 
of God, is by inventing false religions and a vitiated wor- 
ship; in doing which they only so much the more provoke 
his wrath. David, therefore, here indirectly condemns these 
corrupt inventions, about which men torment themselves in 
vain,' and which often sanction impurity ; and in opposition 
to them he justly affirms, that in the keeping of the law there 
is an exemption from every thing which defiles. He adds, 
that it endures for ever ; as if he had said, This is the treasure 
of everlasting happiness. We see how mankind, without 
well thinking what they are doing, pursue, with impetuous 


1 Apres lesquelles les hommes se tormentent en vain.”—Fr. 





PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 823 


and ardent affections, the transitory things of this world; 
but, in thus catching at the empty shadow of a happy life, 
they lose true happiness itself. In the second clause, by 
calling the commandments of God truth, David shows that 
whatever men undertake to do at the mere suggestion of 
their own minds, without having a regard to the law of God 
as a rule, is error and falsehood. And, indeed, he could not 
haye more effectually stirred us up to love, and zealously to 
live according to the law, than by giving us this warning, 
that all those who order their life, without having any respect 
to the law of God, deceive themselves, and follow after mere 
delusions. Those who explain the word judgments, as refer- 
ring only to the commandments of the second table, are, in 
my opinion, mistaken: for David’s purpose was to commend, 
under a variety of expressions, the advantages which the 
faithful receive from the law of God. When he says, They 
are justified together, the meaning is, They: are all righteous 
from the greatest to the least, without a single exception. 
By this commendation he distinguishes the law of God from 
all the doctrines of men, for no blemish or fault can be found 
in it, but it is in all points absolutely perfect. 


10. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine 
gold ; sweeter also than honey, and the droppings of honey- 
combs, | 

11. Moreover, by them is thy servant made circumspect ; and in 
the keeping of them there is great reward. , 


10. More to be desired are they than gold. The Psalmist 
now exalts the law of God both on account of its price and 
sweetness. This commendation depends on the commenda- 
tions given in the preceding verses ; for the many and great 
advantages which he has just now enumerated, ought justly 
to make us account heavenly truth the highest and most 
excellent treasure, and to despise, when compared with it, 
all the gold and silver of the world. Instead of the word 
jine gold, which the Latins have called Aurum obryzum,* 


1 “ Et ce qui distille des rais de miel. ”__Fr, 
’ 2 Lequel les Latins ont nommé Aurum obryzum.”—Fr, 


824 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


some render the Hebrew word a jewel, or precious stones,’ but 
the other translation is more generally received, namely, fine 
gold, that is, gold which is pure and well refined in the fur- 
nace; and there are many passages of Scripture by which 
this rendering is confirmed.? The Hebrew word 75, paz, 
is derived from MB, pazah, which signifies to strengthen ;* 
from which we may conjecture that the Psalmist does not 
mean the gold of any particular country, as if one should say 
the gold of Ophir, but gold completely refined and purified 
by art. So far is 75, paz, from being derived from the name 
of a country, that, on the contrary, it appears from Jer. x. 9, - 
that the land of Uphaz took its name from this Hebrew word, 
because it had in it mines of the finest gold. As to the 
origin of the word obrizum, which the Latins have used, 
we cannot say any thing with certainty, except that, accord- 
ing to the conjecture of Jerome, it signifies brought from the 
land of Ophir, as if it had been said, aurum Ophrizum. 
In short, the sense is, that we do not esteem the law as 
it deserves, if we do not prefer it to all the riches of the 
world. If weare once brought thus highly to prize the law, 
it will serve effectually to deliver our hearts from an immo- 
derate desire of gold and silver. To this esteem of the law 
there must be added love to it, and delight in it, so that it 
may not only subdue us to obedience by constraint, but also 
allure us by its sweetness ; a thing which is impossible, unless, 
at the same time, we have mortified in us the love of carnal 
pleasures, with which it is not wonderful to see us enticed 
and ensnared, so long as we reject, through a vitiated taste, 
the righteousness of God. From this we may again deduce 
another evidence, that David’s discourse is not to be under- 
stood simply of the commandments, and of the dead letter, 
but that he comprehends, at the same time, the promises by 


1 The rendering of the Septuagint is, asdoy riesov, precious stone; and 
in Psalm exix. 127, they translate the same Hebrew word romaiov, 
a topaz, which is a precious stone. This last Greek word, 

wl am is derived from the Hebrew word w, paz. 

* The word is evidently used for jine gold in jae! xxi. 8, and Job 
xxviii. 17. 

8’ Or to consolidate: and hence ®, paz, means solid gold, or gold well 
purified : for the more it is purified, it is the more solid, and consequently 
of greater weight and value. 





PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 325 


which the grace of God is offered to us. If the law did 
nothing else but command us, how could it be loved, since 
in commanding it terrifies us, because we all fail in keep- 
ing it ?' Certainly, if we separate the law from the hope of 
pardon, and from the Spirit of Christ, so far from tasting 
it to be sweet as honey, we will rather find in it a bitterness 
which kills our wretched souls. 


11. Moreover, by them is thy servant made circumspect. 
These words may be extended generally to all the people of 
God ; but they are properly to be understood of David him- 
self, and by them he testifies that he knew well, from his 
own experience, all that he had stated in the preceding verses 
respecting the law. No man will ever speak truly and in 
good earnest of heavenly truth, but he who has it deeply 
fixed in his own heart. David therefore acknowledges, that 
whatever prudence he had for regulating and framing his life 
aright, he was indebted for it to the law of God. Although, 
however, it is properly of himself that he speaks, yet by his 
own example he sets forth a general rule, namely, that if 
persons wish to have a proper method for governing the life 
well, the law of God alone is perfectly sufficient for this pur- 
pose; but that, on the contrary, as soon as persons depart 
from it, they are liable to fall into numerous errors and sins. 
It is to be observed that David, by all at once turning his 
discourse to God, appeals to him as a witness of what he had 
said, the more effectually to convince men that he speaks 
sincerely and from the bottom of his heart. As the Hebrew 
word “I, zahar, which I have translated made circumspect, 
signifies to teach, as well as to be on one’s guard, some translate 
it in this place, Thy servant is taught, or warned, by the com- 
mandments of the law. But the sentence implies much more, 
when it is viewed as meaning that he who yields himself to 
God to be governed by him is made circumspect and cautious, 
and, therefore, this translation seems to me to be preferable. 

In the second clause the Psalmist declares, that whoever 


1“ Veu qu’en commandant elle nous espouante, & cause que nous 
- defaillons tous en l’observation d’icelle ? '"—Fr. 


826 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


yield themselves to God to observe the rule of righteousness 
which he prescribes, do not lose their labour, seeing he has 
in reserve for them a great and rich reward: In heeping of 
them there is great reward. It is no mean commendation of 
the law when it is said, that in it God enters into covenant 
with us, and, so to speak, brings himself under obligation to 
recompense our obedience. In requiring from us whatever 
is contained in the law, he demands nothing but what he has 
a right to; yet such is his free and undeserved liberality, 
that he promises to his servants a reward, which, in point of 
justice, he does not owe them. The promises of the law, it 
is true, are made of no effect; but it is through our fault: 
for even he who is most perfect amongst us comes far short 
of full and complete righteousness; and men cannot expect 
any reward for their works until they have perfectly and to 
the full satisfied the requirements of the law. Thus these 
two doctrines completely harmonize: first, that eternal life 
shall be given as the reward of works to him who fulfils 
the law in all points; and, secondly, that the law notwith- 
standing denounces a curse against all men, because the whole 
human family are destitute of the righteousness of works. 
This will presently appear from the following verse. David, 
after having celebrated this benefit of the law—that it offers 
an abundant reward to those who serve God—immediately 
changes his discourse, and cries out, Who can understand his 
errors ? by which he pronounces all men liable to eternal 
death, and thus utterly overthrows all the confidence which 
men may be disposed to place in the merit of their works. 
It may be objected, that this commendation, Jn the heeping of 
thy commandments there is great reward, is in vain ascribed to 
the law, seeing it is without effect. The answer is easy, 
namely, that as in the covenant of adoption there is included - 
the free pardon of sins, upon which depends the imputation 
of righteousness, God bestows a recompense upon the works 
of his people, although, in point of justice, it is not due to 
them. What God promises in the law to those who perfect- 
ly obey it, true believers obtain by his gracious liberality and 
fatherly goodness, inasmuch as he accepts for perfect right- 
eousness their holy desires and earnest endeavours to obey. 





PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 327 


12. Who can understand his errors ?1 Cleanse thou me from my 
secret sins. 

13. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins,? that 

. they may not have dominion over me; then shall I be 

upright and clean from much wickedness.* 

14, Let the words of my mouth, and the meditations of my heart, 
be acceptable in thy sight, O Jehovah, my strength and my 
redeemer. 


12. Who can understand his errors? This exclamation 
shows us what use we should make of the promises of the 
law, which have a condition annexed to them. It is this: 
As soon as they come forth, every man should examine his 
own life, and compare not only his actions, but also his 
thoughts, with that perfect rule of righteousness which is 
laid down in the law. Thus it will come to pass, that all, 
from the least to the greatest, seeing themselves cut off from 
all hope of reward from the law, will be constrained to flee 
for refuge to the mercy of God. It is not enough to consi- 
der what the doctrine of the law contains ; we must also look 
into ourselves, that we may see how far short we have come 
in our obedience to the law. Whenever the Papists hear 
this promise, “He who doeth these things shall live in 
them,” (Lev. xviii. 5,) they do not hesitate at once to con- 
nect eternal life with the merit of their works, as if it were 
in their own power to fulfil the law, of which we are all 

rs, not only in one point, but in all its parts. 
David, therefore, being involved as it were in a labyrinth on 
all sides, acknowledges with astonishment that he is over- 


1 Ses fautes."—Fr. ‘ His faults.” ‘ Erreurs ou ignorances.”—Fr. 
. * Errors or ignorances.” 

2 The word which our author uses denotes literally arrogances or proud- 
nesses ; and this is also the literal rendering of the Hebrew word here used. 
Calvin has the following note on the margin of the French version, expla- 
natory of arrogances, ‘‘ Pechez commis par contumace et rebellion.” 
“ That is, sins committed obstinately and rebelliously.” 

8 From much wickedness. This translation conveys the precise mean- 
ing of what David intended. He was afraid of incurring accumulated 

t. In our English translation it is “‘ the great transgression,” on which 
alford remarks, ‘“‘ The insertion of the definite article ‘ the’ is not 
authorised by the original, and leads to a supposition which is incorrect, 
that some definite crime, such as ‘the sin against the Holy Ghost,’ 
- is intended. 


328 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


- 


whelmed under a sense of the multitude of his sins. We 
ought then to remember, in the first place, that as we are 
personally destitute of the righteousness which the law 
requires, we are on that account excluded from the hope of 
the reward which the law has promised; and, in the next 
place, that we are guilty before God, not of one fault or of 
two, but of sins innumerable, so that we ought, with the 
bitterest sorrow, to bewail our depravity, which not only 
deprives us of the blessing of God, but also turns to us life 
into death. This Daviddid. There is no doubt that when, 
after having said that God liberally offers a reward to all 
who observe his law, he cried out, Who can understand his 
errors? it was from the terror with which he was stricken in — 
thinking upon his sins. By the Hebrew word F\N YW, 
shegioth, which we have translated errors, some think Dayid 
intends lesser faults; but in my judgment he meant simply 
to say, that Satan has so many devices by which he deludes 
and blinds our minds, that there is not a man who knows the 
hundredth part of his own sins. The saints, it is true, 
often offend in lesser matters, through ignorance and inad- 
vertence ; but it happens also that, being entangled in the 
snares of Satan, they do not perceive even the grosser faults 
which they have committed. Accordingly, all the sins 
to the commission of which men give themselves loose reins, 
not being duly sensible of the evil which is in them, and 
being deceived by the allurements of the flesh, are justly 
included under the Hebrew word here used by David, which 
signifies faults or ignorances.' In summoning himself and 
others before the judgment-seat of God, he warns himself 
and them, that although their consciences do not condemn | 
them, they are not on that account absolved; for God sees 
far more clearly than men’s consciences, since even those 
who look most attentively into themselves, do not perceive a 
great part of the sins with which they are chargeable. 

After making this confession, David adds a prayer for 


1 « Dont a bon droict tous les pechez ausquels les hommes se laschent 
la bride, pource qu’ils ne sentent pas & bon escient le mal qui y est, et 
sont deceus par les allechemens de la chair, sont nommez du mot Hebrieu 
duquel David use yci qui signifie Fautes ou Ignorances.’—Fr, 


PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 829 


pardon, Cleanse thou me from my secret sins. The word cleanse 
is to be referred not to the blessing of regeneration, but to 
free forgiveness; for the Hebrew verb 71), nakah, here used, 
comes from a word which signifies b, be innocent. The 
Psalmist explains more clearly what he intended by the word 
errors, in now calling them secret sins; that is to say, those 
with respect to which men deceive themselves, by thinking 


that they are no sins, and who thus deceive themselves not 


only purposely and by expressly aiming at doing so, but 
because they do not enter into the due consideration of the 
majesty of the judgment of God. It is in vain to attempt 
to justify ourselves under the pretext and excuse of igno- 
rance. Nor does it avail any thing to be blind as to our 
faults, since no man is a competent judge in his own cause. 
We must, therefore, never account ourselves to be pure and 
innocent until we are pronounced such by God’s sentence of 
absolution or acquittal. The faults which we do not perceive 
must necessarily come under the review of God’s judgment, 
and entail upon us condemnation, unless he blot them out 
and pardon them ; and if so, how shall he escape and remain 
unpunished who, besides these, is chargeable with sins of 
which he knows himself to be guilty, and on account of 
which his own conscience compels him to judge and condemn 
himself? Farther, we should remember that we are not 
guilty of one offence only, but are overwhelmed with an 
immense mass of impurities. The more diligently any one 
examines himself, the more readily will he acknowledge 
with David, that if God should discover our secret faults, 
there would be found in us an abyss of sins so great as to 
have neither bottom nor shore, as we say;' for no man 
can comprehend in how many ways he is guilty before 
God. From this also it appears, that the Papists are be- 
witched, and chargeable with the grossest hypocrisy, when 
they pretend that they can easily and speedily gather all their 
sins once a year into a bundle. The decree of the Lateran 
Council commands every one to confess all his sins once every 
year, and at the same time declares that there is no hope 


} “Tl se trouvera en nous un tel abysme de pechez, qu'il n’y aura ne 
fond ne rive, comme on dit.” —Fr. 


330 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. 


of pardon but in complying with that decree. Accordingly, 
the blinded Papist, by going to the confessional, to mutter 
his sins into the ear of the priest, thinks he has done all that 
is required, as if he could count upon his fingers all the sins 
which he has committed during the course of the whole year; 
whereas, even the saints, by strictly examining themselves, 
can scarcely come to the knowledge of the hundredth part of 
their sins, and, therefore, with one voice unite with David in 
saying, Who can understand his errors? Nor will it do to 
allege that it is enough if each performs the duty of reckon- 
ing up his sins to the utmost of his ability. This does not 
diminish, in any degree, the absurdity of this famous decree.* 
As it is impossible for us to do what the law requires, all whose 
hearts are really and deeply imbued with the principle of the 
fear of God must necessarily be overwhelmed with despair, 
so long as they think themselves bound to enumerate all 
their sins, in order to their being pardoned; and those who 
imagine they can disburden themselves of their sins in this 
way must be persons altogether stupid. I know that some 
explain these words ina different sense, viewing them as a 
prayer, in which David beseeches God, by the guidance of 
his Holy Spirit, to recover him from all his errors. But, in 
my opinion, they are to be viewed rather as a prayer for for- 
giveness, and what follows in the next verse is a prayer for 
the aid of the Holy Spirit, and for success to overcome 
temptations. 


13. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. 
By presumptuous sins he means known and evident trans- 
gressions,’ accompanied with proud contempt and obstinacy. 
By the word keep back, he intimates, that such is the natural 
propensity of the flesh to sin, that even the saints themselves 
would immediately break forth or rush headlong into it, did 
not God, by his own guardianship and protection, keep them 
back. It is to be observed, that while he calls himself the 
servant of God, he nevertheless acknowledges that he had 


1 “ Cela ne diminue en rien l’absurdite de ce beau decret.”—Fr, 
? That is, known and evident to the person committing them. He sins 
against knowledge. 





4 


PSALM XIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 331 


need of the bridle, lest he should arrogantly and rebelliously 
break forth in transgressing the law of God. Being 
regenerated by the Spirit of God, he groaned, it is true, 
under the burden of his sins; but he knew, on the other 
hand, how great is the rebellion of the flesh, and how much 
we are inclined to forgetfulness of God, from which proceed 
contempt of his majesty and all impiety. Now, if David, 

who had made so much progress in the fear of God, was not 
beyond the danger of transgressing, how shall the carnal and 
unrenewed man, in whom innumerable lusts exercise dominion, 
be able to restrain and govern himself by his own free will? 
Let us learn, then, even although the unruliness of our way- 
ward flesh has been already subdued by the denial of our- 
selves, to walk in fear and trembling; for unless God restrain 
us, our hearts will violently boil with a proud and insolent 
contempt of God. This sense is confirmed by the reason 
added immediately after, that they may not have dominion over 
me. By these words he expressly declares, that unless God 
assist him, he will not only be unable to resist, but will be 
wholly brought under the dominion of the worst vices. This 
passage, therefore, teaches us not only that all mankind are 
naturally enslaved to sin, but that the faithful themselves 
would become the bond-slaves of sin also, if God did not 
unceasingly watch over them to guide them in the path of 
holiness, and to strengthen them for persevering in it. There 
is also another useful lesson which we have here to attend 
to, namely, that we ought never to pray for pardon, without, 


_at the same time, asking to be strengthened and fortified by 


the power of God for the time to come, that temptations, in 
future, may not gain advantage over us. And although we 
may feel in our hearts the incitements of concupiscence 
goading and distressing us, we ought not, on that account, 
to become discouraged. The remedy to which we should 
have recourse is to pray to God to restrain us. No doubt, 
David could have wished to feel in his heart no stirrings of 
corruption; but knowing that he would never be wholly 
free from the remains of sin, until at death he had put off 
this corrupt nature, he prays to be armed with the grace of 
the Holy Spirit for the combat, that iniquity might not 









832 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XIX. _ 


reign victorious over him. In the end of the verse there are — 
two things to be observed. David, in affirming that he shall 

then be upright and clean from much wichedness, attributes, in — 
the first place, the honour of preserving him innocent to the 
spiritual assistance of God; and depending upon it, he con- 
fidently assures himself of victory over all the armies of Satan. 
In the second place, he acknowledges, that unless he is 
assisted by God, he will be overwhelmed with an immense load, 
and plunged as it were into a boundless abyss of wickedness : 
for he says, that aided by God, he will be clear not of one 
fault or of two, but of many. From this it follows, that as 
soon as we are abandoned by the grace of God, there is no 
kind of sin in which Satan may not entangle us. Let this 
confession of David then quicken us to earnestness in 
prayer; for in the midst of so many and various snares, it 
does not become us to fall asleep or to be indolent. Again, 
let the other part of the Psalmist’s exercise predominate 
in our hearts—let us boast with him, that although Satan 
may assault us by many and strong armies, we will never- 
theless be invincible, provided we have the aid of God, and 
will continue, in despite of every hostile attempt, to hold — 
fast our integrity. 


14. Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my 
heart. David asks still more expressly to be fortified by the 
grace of God, and thus enabled to live an upright and holy 
life. The substance of the verse is this: I beseech thee, O 
God, not only to keep me from breaking forth into the exter- 
nal acts of transgression, but also to frame my tongue and 
my heart to the obedience of thy law. We know how diffi- 
cult it is, even for the most perfect, so to bridle their words 
and thoughts, as that nothing may pass through their heart — 
or mouth which is contrary to the will of God; and yet this | 
inward purity is what the law chiefly requires of us. Now, — 
the rarer this virtue—the rarer this strict control of the 
heart and of the tongue is, let us learn so much the more 
the necessity of our being governed by the Holy Spirit, in 
order to regulate our life uprightly and honestly. By the 
word acceptable, the Psalmist shows that the only rule of 


PSALM XX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 833 


living well is for men to endeavour to please God, and to be 
approved of him. The concluding words, in which he calls 
God his strength and his redeemer, he employs to confirm 
himself in the assured confidence of obtaining his requests. 


PSALM XX. 


This psalm contains a common prayer of the Church in behalf of the 
King of Israel, that God would succour him in danger; and in behalf 
of his kingdom, that God would maintain it in safety, and cause it to 
prosper: for in the person of David the safety and well-being of the © 
whole community centred. To this there is added a promise, that 
God will preside over that kingdom of which he was the founder, and 
so effectually watch over it as to secure its continual preservation. 


§ To the chief musician. A Psalm of David. 


1. May Jehovah hear thee in the day of trouble! may the name 
of the God of Jacob defend thee ! 

2. May he send thee help from his sanctuary, and sustain thee 
out of Sion! 


THE inscription shows that the psalm was composed by 
David; but though he was its author, there is no absurdity 
in his speaking of himself in the person of others. The office 
of a prophet having been committed to him, he with great pro- 
priety prepared this as a form of prayer for the use of the faith- 
ful. In doing this, his object was not so much to commend 
his own person, by authoritatively issuing a royal ordinance 
enjoining upon the people the use of this prayer, as to show, 
in the exercise of his office as a teacher, that it belonged to 
the whole Church to concern itself, and to use its endeavours 
that the kingdom which God had erected might continue 
safe and prosperous. Many interpreters view this prayer as 
offered up only on one particular occasion; but in this I 
cannot agree. The occasion of its composition at first may 
haye arisen from some particular battle which was about to 
_ be fought, either against the Ammonites, or against some 


334 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XxX. 


other enemies of Israel. But the design of the Holy Spirit, 
in my judgment, was to deliver to the Church a common 
form of prayer, which, as we may gather from the words, 
was to be used whenever she was threatened with any 
danger. God commands his people, in general, to pray for 
kings, but there was a special reason, and one which did not 
apply to any other kingdom, why prayer was to be made 
in behalf of this kingdom; for it was only by the hand of 
David and his seed that God had determined to govern and 
maintain his people. It is particularly to be noticed, that 
under the figure of this temporal kingdom, there was 
described a government far more excellent, on which the 
whole joy and felicity of the Church depended. The object, 
therefore, which David had expressly in view was, to exhort 
all the children of God to cherish such a holy solicitude 
about the kingdom of Christ, as would stir them up to con- 
tinual prayer in its behalf. 


1. May Jehovah hear thee, §&c. The Holy Spirit, by intro- 
ducing the people as praying that God would answer the 
prayers of the king, is to be viewed as at the same time 
admonishing kings that it is their duty to implore the protec- 
tion of God in all their affairs. When he says, Jn the day of 
trouble, he shows that they will not be exempted from troubles, 
and he does this that they may not become discouraged, if 
at any time they should happen to be in circumstances of 
danger. In short, the faithful, that the body may not be 
separated from the head, further the king’s prayers by their 
common and united supplications. The name of God is — 
here put for God himself, and not without good reason; for 
the essence of God being incomprehensible to us, it behoyes 
us to trust in him, in so far as his grace and power are made 
known tous. From his name, therefore, proceeds confidence — 
in calling upon him. The faithful desire that the king may 
be protected and aided by God, whose name was called upon — 
among the sons of Jacob. I cannot agree with those who 
think that mention is here made of that patriarch, because 
God exercised him with various afflictions, not unlike those ~ 
with which he tried his servant David. I am rather of 








PSALM Xx. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 835 


opinion that, as is usual in Scripture, the chosen people are 
denoted by the term Jacob. And from this name, the God of 
Jacob, the faithful encourage themselves to pray for the defence 
of their king; because it was one of the privileges of their 
adoption to live under the conduct and protection of a king 
set over them by God himself. Hence we may conclude, as 
I have said before, that under the figure of a temporal king- 
dom there is described to us a government much more 
excellent. Since Christ our King, being an everlasting 
priest, never ceases to make intercession with God, the whole 
body of the Church should unite in prayer with him ;? and 
farther, we can have no hope of being heard except he go 
before us, and conduct us to God.* And it serves in no 
small degree to assuage our sorrows to consider that Jesus 
Christ, when we are afflicted, accounts our distresses his own, 
provided we, at the same time, take courage, and continue 
resolute and magnanimous in tribulation; which we should 
be prepared to do, since the Holy Spirit here forewarns us 
that the kingdom of Christ would be subject to dangers and 
troubles. 


2. May he send thee help. That is to say, may he succour 
thee out of mount Sion, where he commanded the ark of the 
covenant to be placed, and chose for himself a dwelling- 
place. The weakness of the flesh will not suffer men to soar 
up to heaven, and, therefore, God comes down to meet them, 
and by the external means of grace shows that he is near 
them. Thus the ark of the covenant was to his ancient 
people a pledge of his presence, and the sanctuary an image 
of heaven. But as God, by appointing mount Sion to be the 
place where the faithful should continually worship him, had 

joined the kingdom and priesthood together, David, in put- 

1 * Bt de la il nous convient recueillir ce que j’ay dit, = sous la figure 
Sap se piss temporel nous est descrit un gouvernement bien plus excel- 

2 As a people of Israel here unite in prayer with and for the monarch 
- of Israel, whom we may picture to our minds as repairing to the tabernacle 
to offer sacrifices, where this animated ode was sung by the priests and 


§ “ Si non qu'il marche devant, et nous conduise 4 Dieu.”—Fr. 


336 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XX. 


ting into the lips of the people a prayer for help out of Sion, 
doubtless had an eye to this sacred bond of union. Hence 
I conjecture that this psalm was composed by David in his 
old age, and about the close of his life. Some think he spake 
of Sion by the Spirit of prophecy before it had been appoint- 
ed that the ark should be placed there; but this opinion 
seems strained, and to have little probability. 


3. May he remember all thy offerings ; and make thy holo- 
caust [or burnt-sacrifice] fat !* Selah. 

4, May he grant thee according to thy heart, and fulfil all thy 
counsel ! 

5. That we may rejoice in thy salvation, [or safety :] and set up 
a banner in the name of our God, when Jehovah shall 
fulfil all thy petitions. 


3. May he remember. I understand the word remember as 
meaning to have regard to, as it is to be understood in many 
other places; just as to forget often signifies to neglect, or not to 
deign to regard, nor even to behold, the object to which it is ap- 
plied. It is, in short, a prayer that God would actually show 
that the king’s sacrifices were acceptable to him. Two kinds 
of them are here mentioned; first, the MID, mincha, men- 
tioned in the first clause of the verse, which was the appointed 
accompaniment of all sacrifices, and which was also some- — 
times offered by itself; and, secondly, the holocaust, or whole 
burnt-sacrifice. But under these two kinds David intended 
to comprehend, by synecdoche, all sacrifices; and under 
sacrifices he comprehends requests and prayers. We know 
that whenever the fathers prayed under the law, their hope 
of obtaining what they asked was founded upon their sacri- 
fices ; and, in like manner, at this day our prayers are ac- — 
ceptable to God only in so far as Christ sprinkles and sanctifies _ 
them with the perfume of his own sacrifice. The faithful, 
therefore, here desire that the solemn prayers of the king, 
which were accompanied with sacrifices and oblations, might 


1 That is, May he accept it! The best and fattest of the flocks and 
herds were, acco to the Mosaic injunction, to be offered to God, 
and were consequently the sacrifices he most approved of. | 





da 


PSALM XX. TUE BOOK OF PSALMS. 837 


have their effect in the prosperous issue of his affairs. That 
this is the meaning may be gathered still more clearly from 
the following verse, in which they commend to God the 
desires and counsels of the king. But as it would be absurd 
to ask God to grant foolish and wicked desires, it is to be 
regarded as certain, that there is here described a king who 
was neither given to ambition, nor inflamed with avarice, nor 
actuated by the desire of whatever the unruly passions might 
suggest, but wholly intent on the charge which was commit- 
ted to him, and entirely devoted to the advancement of the 
public good; so that he asks nothing but what the Holy 
Spirit dictated to him, and what God, by his own mouth, 
commanded him to ask. 


5. That we may rejoice in thy salvation. This verse may 
be explained in two other ways, besides the sense it bears 
according to the translation which I have given. Some con- 
sider it to be a prayer, as if it had been said, Lord, make 
us to rejoice. Others think that the faithful, after having 
finished their prayer, encourage themselves to entertain good 
hope ;* or rather, being already inspired with an assured hope 
of success, they begin to sing, so to speak, of the victory, 
even as it is usual with David to intermingle such kind of 
rejoicings with his prayers, thereby to stir up himself to con- 
tinue with the more alacrity in prayer. But upon consider- 
ing the whole more carefully, my opinion is, that what is 
meant to be expressed is the effect or fruit which would 
result from the bestowment of the grace and favour of God, 
for which the people prayed ; and, therefore, I have thought 
it necessary to supply the particle that, in the beginning of 
the verse. The faithful, as an argument to obtain the favour 
of God towards their king, set forth the joy which they 
would all experience in common, in seeing it exercised towards 
him, and the thanksgiving which they would with one accord 
render for it. The import of their language is, It is not for 
the preservation and welfare of one man that we are solicitous ; 
it is for the safety and well-being of the whole Church. The 
expression, Jn thy salvation, may be referred to God as well 

1 i “ 
ae ne: © pcigiene rejoice in thy salvation, and in the name of our 

VOL. L. Y 


338 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XX. 


as to the king; for the salvation which God bestows is often 
called the salvation of God; but the context requires that it 
should be rather understood of the king. The people lived 
“ under the shadow of the king,” to use the words of Jere- 
miah, (Lam. iv. 20;) and, therefore, the faithful now testify, 
that as long as he is safe and in prosperity, they will all be 
joyful and happy. At the same time, to distinguish their 
joy from the heathen dancings and rejoicings, they declare 
that they will set up their banners in the name of God; for 
the Hebrew word S35, dagal, here used, means to set or lift 
up @ banner. The meaning is, that the faithful, in grateful 
acknowledgment of the grace of God, will celebrate his 


praises and triumph in his name. 


6. Now I know that Jehovah hath saved his anointed; he will 
hear him from the heavens of his sanctuary, in the mighti- 
ness of the salvation of his right hand.* 

7. Some trust? in chariots, and some in horses; but we will 
remember the name of Jehovah our God. 

8. They are bowed down and are fallen ; but we are risen and 
are erect. 

9. Save, O Jehovah! let the king hear us in the day that we call 


upon him. 


6. Now Iknow. Here there follows grateful rejoicing, in 
which the faithful declare that they have experienced the 
goodness of God in the preservation of the king. To this 
there is at the same time added a doctrine of faith, namely, 


1“ Ou pe Reape le salut de sa dextre.”—Fr. marg. ‘*Inmightiness the 
salvation of his right hand.” The rendering which Horsley gives is this: 
“In powers [or in strengths] salvation of his right hand ;” and he views 
this clause as a complete sentence by itself. He explains it thus :— In 
all situations of power and strength, whatever a man’s natural means of 
deliverance may be, his preservation must be the work of God’s right hand.” 
“ This seems,” says he, ‘‘to be the best exposition of this line, which is a 
clause by itself, not a part of the preedng sentence ; 9e* is a noun substan- 
tive, the subject of the verb substantive understood. The chariots and 
horses mentioned in the next verse are exposive of ms: in this line, and all 
that follows of this psalm is an amplification of this general sentiment.” 

2 In the Hebrew text there is here an ellipsis, the reading being, “‘ Some 
in chariots, and some in horses,” &c. All the ancient versions read the 
words as they are in the Hebrew text, without supplying any verb. Calvin 
does the same in his Latin version; but in the ch he He foe the 
verb “ Se foyent,” “ trust,” the same supplement as that which is made 
in our English version. : 





i» — 


il Ye i 


PSALM XX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 839 


that God showed by the effect that he put forth his power 
in maintaining the kingdom of Dayid, because it was founded 
upon his calling. The meaning is, It appears from certain 
experience, that God is the guardian of the kingdom which 
he himself set up, and of which he is the founder. For 
David is called Messiah, or anointed, that the faithful might 
be persuaded that he was a lawful and sacred king, whom 
God had testified, by outward anointing, to be chosen by 
himself. Thus, then, the faithful ascribe to the grace of 
God the deliverance which had been wrought for David 
from the greatest dangers, and at the same time, particularly 
mention the cause of this to be, that God had determined to 
protect and defend him who, by his commandment, had been 
anointed king over his people. They confirm still more 
clearly their hope, with respect to the future, in the following 
clause: God will hear him out of heaven. I do not translate 
the verb which is here used into the past tense, but retain 
the future: for I have no doubt, that from the experience 
which God had already given them of his goodness, they 
concluded that it would be hereafter exercised in the conti- 
nual preservation of the kingdom. Here the Psalmist makes 
mention of another sanctuary,’ namely, a heavenly. As God 
then graciously vouchsafed to descend among the Israelites, 
by the ark of the covenant, in order to make himself more 
familiarly known to them; so, on the other hand, he intended 
to draw the minds of his people upwards to himself, and 


thereby to prevent them from forming carnal and earthly 


conceptions of his character, and to teach them that he was 
greater than the whole world. Thus, under the visible 
sanctuary, which was made with hands, there is set forth the 
fatherly goodness of God, and his familiarity with his people ; 
while, under the heavenly sanctuary, there is shown his 
infinite power, dominion, and majesty. The words, Jn the 
mightiness of the salvation, mean his mighty salvation, or his 
saving power. Thus, in the very expression there is a trans- 
posing of the words. The sense comes to this: May God 
by his wonderful power, preserve the king who was anointed 


1 Different from “the sanctuary” mentioned in verse second. 


340 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XX. 


by his commandment! The Holy Spirit, who dictated this 
prayer, saw well that Satan would not suffer Dayid to 
live in peace, but would put forth all his efforts to oppose 
him, which would render it necessary for him to be sustained 
by more than human power. I do not, however, disapprove 
of the other exposition which I have marked on the margin, 
according to which the faithful, for their greater encourage- 
ment, set before themselves this truth, that the salvation of 
God’s right hand is in mightiness; in other words, is suffi- 
ciently strong to overcome all impediments. 


7. Some trust in chariots. Ido not restrict this to the ene- 
mies of Israel, as is done by other interpreters. I am rather 
inclined to think that there is here a comparison between 
the people of God and all the rest of the world. Wesee how 
natural it is to almost all men to be the more courageous 
and confident the more they possess of riches, power, and 
military forces. The people of God, therefore, here protest 
that they do not place their hope, as is the usual way with 
men, in their military forces and warlike apparatus, but only 
in the aid of God. As the Holy Spirit here sets the assist- 
ance of God in opposition to human strength, it ought to be 
particularly noticed, that whenever our minds come to be 
occupied by carnal confidence, they fall at the same time 
into a forgetfulness of God. It is impossible for him, who 
promises himself victory by confiding in his own strength, to 
have his eyes turned towards God. The inspired writer, 
therefore, uses the word remember, to show, that when the 
saints betake themselves to God, they must cast off every 
thing which would hinder them from placing an exclusive 
trust in him. This remembrance of God serves two import- — 
ant purposes to the faithful. In the first place, however 
much power and resources they may possess, it neverthe- 
less withdraws them from all vain confidence, so that they 
do not expect any success except from the pure grace of 
God. In the second place, if they are bereft and utterly 
destitute of all succour, it notwithstanding so strengthens 
and encourages them, that they call upon God both with 
confidence and constancy. On the other hand, when un- 





PSALM XX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 341 


godly men feel themselves strong and powerful, being blinded 
with pride, they do not hesitate boldly to despise God; but 
when they are brought into circumstances of distress, they 

- are so terrified as not to know what to become. In short, 
the Holy Spirit here recommends to us the remembrance of 
God, which, retaining its efficacy both in the want and in 
the abundance of power, subdues the vain hopes with which 
the flesh is wont to be inflated. As the verb "'5}3, nazhir, 
which I have translated we will remember, is in the conjuga- 
tion hiphil, some render it transitively, we shall cause to 
remember. But it is no new thing in Hebrew for verbs to 
be used as neuter which are properly transitive ; and, there- 
fore, I have adopted the exposition which seems to me the 
most suitable to this passage. 


8. They are bowed down. It is probable that there is here 
pointed out, as it were with the finger, the enemies of Israel, 
whom God had overthrown, when they regarded no event as 
less likely to happen. There is contained in the words a 
tacit contrast between the cruel pride with which they had 
been lifted up for a time when they audaciously rushed for- 
ward to make havoc of all things on the one hand, and the 
oppression of the people of God on the other. The expres- 
sion, to rise, is applied only to those who were before sunk or 
fallen ; and, on the other hand, the expression, bowed down and 
fallen, is with propriety applied to those who were lifted up 
with pride and presumption. The prophet therefore teaches by 
the event, how much more advantageous it is for us to place all 
our confidence in God than to depend upon our own strength. 


9. Save, O Jehovah! &c. Some read in one sentence, 
O Jehovah! save the king ;' perhaps because they think it 
wrong to attribute to an earthly king what is proper to God 
only,—to be called upon, and to hear prayer. But if we 
turn our eyes towards Christ, as it becomes us to do, we 


1 This is the reading of the Septuagint. Its words are, Kugst cwaoy row 
Gzeinea. ‘The reading of the Vulgate is the same. Calvin's rendering, 

_ which is also that of our English version, agrees with the masoretical 
_ punctuation ; but the Septuagint has followed a different pointing. 


342 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XX. 


will no longer wonder that what properly belongs to him is 
attributed in a certain sense to David and his successors, in 
so far as they were types of Christ. As God governs and 
saves us by the hand of Christ, we must not look for salva- 
tion from any other quarter. In like manner, the faith- 
ful under the former economy were accustomed to betake 
themselves to their king as the minister of God’s saving 
grace. Hence these words of Jeremiah, (Lam. iy. 20,) 
“ The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of the Lord, of 
whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among the 
heathen.” Whenever, therefore, God promises the restora- 
tion of his church, he sets forth a symbol or pledge of its 
salvation in the kingdom. We now see that it is not with- 
out very good reason that the faithful are introduced asking 
succour from their king, under whose guardianship and 
protection they were placed, and who, as the vicegerent of 
God, presided over them; as the Prophet Micah says, (chap. 
ii. 13,) “ Their king shall pass before them, and the Lord on 
the head of them ;” by which words he intimates, that their 
king will be as it were a mirror in which they may see 
reflected the image of God. To return to the present pass- 
age :—The expression, Save, O Jehovah, is elliptical, but it 
has greater emphasis than if the object for which salvation 
is sought had been mentioned; for by this means Dayid 
shows that this salvation belongs in common to the whole 
body of the church. In Psalm cxviii. 25, there is a prayer 
in the same words, and it is certain that it is the very same 
prayer. In short, this is a prayer, that God, by blessing the 
king, would show himself the Saviour of the whole people. 
In the last clause of the verse there is expressed the means 
of this salvation. The people pray that the king may be 
furnished with power from God to deliver them whenever they 
are in distress, and ery to him forhelp: Let the hing hear us in 
the day that we call upon him. God had not promised that 
his people would be saved in any other way than by the hand 
and conduct of the king whom he had given them. In the 
present day, when Christ is now manifested to us, let us 
learn to yield him this honour—to renounce all hope of salva- 
tion from any other quarter, and to trust to that salvation 








PSALM XXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 343 


only which he shall bring to us from God his Father. And 

of this we shall then only become partakers when, being all 
gathered together into one body, under the same Head, we 
shall have mutual care one of another, and when none of us 
will have his attention so engrossed with his own advantage 
and individual interest, as to be indifferent to the welfare 
and happiness of others. 


PSALM XXL. 


This psalm contains a public and solemn thanksgiving for the prosper- 
ous and happy condition of the king. Its subject is almost the same 
with that of the preceding.’ In the former there was set forth a common 
form of prayer, which was designed to excite in the whole people ear- 
nest concern for the preservation of their head. In this it is shown 
that the safety and prosperity of the king ought to produce public and 
general rejoicing through the whole realm, inasmuch as God by this 
means intended to preserve the whole body in safety. But, above 
all, it was the design of the Holy Spirit here to direct the minds of the 
faithful to Christ, who was the end and perfection of this kingdom, 
and to teach them that they could not be saved except under the head 
which God himself had appointed over them. 


§ To the chief musician. A psalm of David. 


1. The king will rejoice in thy strength, O Jehovah! and in thy 
salvation how greatly will he rejoice ! 
2. Thou hast given him the desire of his heart, and hast not 
denied him the request of his lips. Selah. 
3. For thou wilt prevent him with blessings of good, thou wilt 
set a crown of gold upon his head.* 


| 
= 
4 
* 
q 
i 
j 
> 


} 


1. The king will rejoice in thy strength, O Jehovah! David 
could have given thanks to God in private for the victories and 


1“ What was antici in the preceding psalm, the present poem 
arae gat _ ere alien tdnese Oe Harp of nes 
e Hebrew word is t, paz, enoti e @ purest e 

same word which is used in arehereey oo z en 





344 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXI. 


other signal favours which he had received from him ; but it 
was his intention to testify not only that it was God who ele- 
vated him to the throne, but also that whatever blessings 
God had conferred upon him redounded to the public good, 
and the advantage of all the faithful. In the beginning of 
the psalm the believing Israelites express their firm per- 
suasion that God, who had created David to be king, had 
undertaken to defend and maintain him. It therefore appears 
that this psalm, as well as the preceding, was composed for 
the purpose of assuring the faithful that the goodness of God 
in this respect towards David would be of long duration, 
and permanent; and it was necessary, in order to their being 
established in a well-grounded confidence of their safety, to 
hope well of their king, whose countenance was as it were a 
mirror of the merciful and reconciled countenance of God. 
The sense of the words is: Lord, in putting forth thy power 
to sustain and protect the king, thou wilt preserve him safe ; 
and, ascribing his safety to thy power, he will greatly rejoice 
in thee. The Psalmist has doubtless put strength and salva- 
tion for strong and powerful succour, intimating, that the power 
of God in defending the king would be such as would pre- 
serve and protect him against all dangers. 

In the second verse there is pointed out the cause of this 
joy. ‘The cause was this: that God had heard the prayers of 
the king, and had liberally granted him whatever he desired. 
It was important to be known, and that the faithful should 
have it deeply impressed on their minds, that all Dayid’s 
successes were so many benefits conferred upon him by God, 
and at the same time testimonies of his lawful calling. And 
David, there is no doubt, in speaking thus, testifies that he did 
not give loose reins to the desires of the flesh, and follow the 
mere impulse of his appetites like worldly men, who set their 
minds at one time upon this thing, and at another time upon 
that, without any consideration, and just as they are led by 
their sensual lusts; but that he had so bridled his affections as 
to desire nothing save what was good and lawful. According 
to the infirmity which is natural to men, he was, it is true, 
chargeable with some vices, and even fell shamefully on two 
occasions ; but the habitual administration of his kingdom was 





\ 


f 
j 
| 
| 
: 


~ 
~ 


PSALM XXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 345 


such that it was easy to see that the Holy Spirit presided over 
it. But as by the Spirit of prophecy the Psalmist had princi- 
pally an eye to Christ, who does not reign for his own advan- 
tage, but for ours, and whose desire is directed only to our 


salyation, we may gather hence the very profitable doctrine, 


_ that we need entertain no apprehension that God will reject our 


prayers in behalf of the church, since our heavenly King has 
gone before us in making intercession for her, so that in pray- 
ing for her we are only endeavouring to follow his example. 


3. For thou wilt prevent him. The change of the tense in 
the verbs does not break the connection of the discourse ; 
and, therefore, I have, without hesitation, translated this 
sentence into the future tense, as we know that the changing 
of one tense into another is quite common in Hebrew. 
Those who limit this psalm to the last victory which Dayid 
gained over foreign nations, and who suppose that the crown 
of which mention is here made was the crown of the king of 
the Ammonites, of which we have an account in sacred 
history, give, in my judgment, too low a view of what the 
Holy Spirit has here dictated concerning the perpetual 
prosperity of this kingdom. David, Ihave no doubt, compre- 


_ hended his successors even to Christ, and intended to celebrate 


the continual course of the grace of God in maintaining his 
kingdom through successive ages. It was not of one man 
that it had been said, “I will be his father, and he shall be 


_ my son,” (2 Sam. vii. 14;) but this was a prophecy which 


p 
ix 
, 


’ 


: 


od 


ia) 


ought to be extended from Solomon to Christ, as is fully 
established by the testimony of Isaiah, (chap. ix. 6,) who 
informs us that it was fulfilled when the Son was given or 
manifested. When it is said, Thou wilt prevent him, the 
meaning is, that such will be the liberality and promptitude of 
God, in spontaneously bestowing blessings, that he will not 
only grant what is asked from him, but, anticipating the 
requests of the king, will load him with every kind of good 
things far beyond what he had ever expected. By blessings 


we are to understand abundance or plenteousness. Some 


translate the Hebrew word 32, tob, goodness ;! but with this I 
,* Reading “ blessings of goodness ;” that is, the best or most excellent 
blessings. 


_ 























246 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXI 


cannot agree. Itisto be taken rather for the beneficence or the 
Sree gifts of God. Thus the meaning will be, The king sl 
want nothing which is requisite to make his life in every respect 
happy, since God of his own good pleasure will anticipate his — 
wishes, and enrich him with an abundance of all good things, 
The Psalmist makes express mention of the crown, because it~ 
was the emblem and ensign of royalty ; and he intimates by — 
this that God would be the guardian of the king, whom he 
himself had created. But as the prophet testifies, that the — 
royal diadem, after lying long dishonoured in the dust, 
shall again be put upon the head of Christ, we come to 
the conclusion, that by this song the minds of the godly 
were elevated to the hope of the eternal kingdom, of which — 
a shadow only, or an obscure image, was set forth in the — 
person of the successors of David. The doctrine of the 

everlasting duration of the kingdom of Christ is, therefore, 
here established, seeing he was not placed upon the throne — 
by the favour or suffrages of men, but by God, who, from 
heaven, set the royal crown upon his head with his own 
hand. 


4. He asked life from thee, and thou hast given him length of 
days for ever and ever. ; 
5. His glory is great in thy salvation : thou hast put upon him 
splendour and beauty.» ; 
6. For thou hast set him to be blessings for ever: thou hast 
gladdened him with joy before thy countenance, [or, in thy 
presence. | 
4. He ashed life from thee. This verse confirms what I 
have formerly said, that this psalm is not to be limited to the 
person of any one man. David's life, it is true, was pro-— 
longed to an advanced period, so that, when he departed 
from this world, he was an old man, and full of days; but 
the course of his life was too short to be compared to this 
length of days, which is said to consist of many ages. Eve 


1 Splendour and beauty. ‘* Parkhurst observes, that the two words 1 
translated are often joined in Scripture. The former seems to dence tet 
splendour or glory itself; the latter the ornament, beauty, or 
resulting from that glory. *_ Bishop Mant. 


is a ae a ee ea 


al lll ba 


= 





PSALM XXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 347 


if we reckon the time from the commencement of David's 
reign to the captivity of Babylon, this length of days will 
not be made up and completed in all David’s successors. 
David, therefore, without doubt, comprehends the Eternal 
King. There is here a tacit comparison between the 
beginnings of this kingdom, which were obscure and con- 
temptible, or rather which were fraught with the most griev- 
ous’perils, and which bordered on despair ; and the incredible 
glory which followed, when God, exempting it from the 
common lot of other kingdoms, elevated it almost above the 
heavens. For it is no ordinary commendation of this king- 
dom, when it is said, that it shall endure as long as the sun 
and moon shall shine in the heavens, (Ps. Ixxii.) David, 
therefore, in saying that he asked life, tacitly points to the 
distressed circumstances to which he had often been reduced ; 
and the meaning is, Lord, since the time thou hast called 
thy servant to the hope of the kingdom by thy holy anoint- 
ing, his condition has been such that he has accounted it a 
singular blessing to be rescued from the jaws of death; but 
now, he has not only, by thy grace, escaped in safety the 
dangers which threatened his life: thou hast also promised 
that his kingdom will be continued for many ages in his 
successors. And it serves not a little to magnify the grace 
of God, that he vouchsafed to confer on a poor and miserable 
man, who was almost at the point of death, not only his life,— 
when, amidst the dangers which threatened it, he tremblingly 
asked merely its preservation,—but also the inestimable hon- 
our of elevating him to the royal dignity, and of transmitting 
the kingdom to his posterity for ever. Some expound the 
yerse thus:—Thou hast given him the life which he asked, 
even to the prolonging of his days for ever and ever. But this 
seems to me a cold and strained interpretation. We must 
keep in view the contrast which, as I have said, is here made 
between the weak and contemptible beginnings of the king- 
dom, and the unexpected honour which God conferred upon 
his servant, in calling the moon to witness that his seed 
should never fail. The same has been exemplified in Christ, 
who, from contempt, ignominy, death, the grave, and 


despair, was raised up by his Father to the sovereignty of 

































348 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXI._ > 


heaven, to sit at the Father’s right hand for ever, and at 
length to be the judge of the world. 


5. His glory is great. By these words the people intimate :: 
that their king, through the protection which God afforded 
him, and the deliverances which he wrought for him, would 
become more renowned than if he had reigned in peace with — 
the applause of all men, or had been defended by human 
wealth and human strength, or, finally, had continued inyin- 
cible by his own power and policy; for thereby it appeared — 
the more clearly that he had only attained to the royal dig- 
nity by the favour, conduct, and commandment of God. 
The believing Israelites, therefore, leave it to heathen kings 
to ennoble themselves by their own achievements, and to 
acquire fame by their own valour; and they set more value © 
upon this, that God graciously showed himself favourable — 
towards their king,' than upon all the triumphs of the world. — 
At the same time, they promise themselves such assistance — 
from God as will suffice for adorning the king with =i : 
and honour. 


6. For thou hast set him to be blessings for ever. Some explain — 
these words simply thus, That God had chosen David to be - 
king, in order to pour upon him his blessings in rich abun- _ 
dance. But it is evident that something more is intended 
by this manner of speaking. It implies, that the king had 
such an exuberant abundance of all good things, that he might _ 2 
justly be regarded as a pattern of the greatness of the divine — ‘ 
benefigence ; or that, in praying, his name would be generally — 
used to serve as an example of how the suppliant wished - 
to be dealt with. The Jews were accustomed to speak of 
those being set to be a curse, who were rendered so detest- 
able, and on whom the dreadful vengeance of God had 
been inflicted with such severity, that their very names 
served for cursing and direful imprecations. On the other 
hand, they were accustomed to speak of those being set to 
be a blessing, whose names we propose in our prayers as an 


1 “ Que la grace de Dieu se monstre favorable envers leur Roy.” 


ssa. -_ - 


—_ we 


7 


- PSALM XXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 349 


example of how we desire to be blessed; as if a man for 
instance should say, May God graciously bestow upon thee the 
same favour which he vouchsafed to his servant David! I do 
not reject this interpretation, but I am satisfied with the other, 
which views the words as implying that the king, abounding 
in all kind of good things, was an illustrious pattern of the liber- 
ality of God. We must carefully mark what is said immedi- 
ately after concerning joy: Thou hast gladdened him with joy 
before thy countenance.' The people not only mean that God 
did good to the king, seeing he looked upon him with a benig- 


‘nant and fatherly eye, but they also point out the proper 


cause of this joy, telling us that it proceeded from the know- 
ledge which the king had of his being the object of the Divine 
favour. It would not be enough for God to take care of us, 
and to provide for our necessities, unless, on the other hand, 
he irradiated us with the light of his gracious and reconciled 
countenance, and made us to taste of his goodness, as we 
have seen in the 4th Psalm, “There be many that say, 
Who will show us any good? Lord, lift thou up the light 
of thy countenance upon us, and we shall be saved.” And 
without all doubt, it is true and solid happiness to experience 
that God is so favourable to us that we dwell as it were in his 
presence. 


7. For the king trusteth in Jehovah, and through the goodness 
of the Most High, he shall not be moved. 

8. Thy hand shall find out all thy enemies, thy right hand shall 
Jind out those that hate thee. 

9. Thou shalt put them as it were into a furnace of fire, in the 
time of thy anger ; Jehovah? in his wrath shall overwhelm 
them, and the fire shall consume them. 

10. Thou wilt destroy their fruit from the earth, and their seed 
from among the children of men. 


7. For the hing trusteth. Were again the pious Israelites 
glory that their king shall be established, because he relies 


1 Walford reads this clause—t Thou hast made him glad with the joy 
of thy presence.” 

2 This is rendered according to the pointing in the French version. 
According to the pointing in the Latin version, Jehovah is joined to the 


_ preceding clause thus :—“* In the time of thy anger, O Jehovah!” 


350 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXT. + 
upon God; and they express at the same time how he relies _ 
upon him, namely, by hope or trust. I read the whole verse 

as one sentence, so that there is but one principal verb, and 

explain it thus :—The king, as he places by faith his depend- 

ence on God and his goodness, will not be subject to the 

disasters which overthrow the kingdoms of this world. 

Moreover, as we have said before, that whatever blessings 

the faithful attribute to their king, belong to the whole body 

of the Church, there is here made a promise, common to all 

the people of God, which may serve to keep us tranquil 

amidst the various storms which agitate the world. The 

world turns round as it were upon a wheel, by which it 

comes to pass, that those who were raised to the very top 

are precipitated to the bottom in a moment; but it is here 

promised, that the kingdom of Judah, and the kingdom of 
Christ of which it was a type, will be exempted from such 

vicissitude. Let us remember, that those only have the 

firmness and stability here promised, who betake themselves 

to the bosom of God by an assured faith, and relymg upon 

his mercy, commit themselves to his protection. The cause 

or the ground of this hope or trust is at the same time 

expressed, and it is this,—that God mercifully cherishes his 

own people, whom he ‘has once graciously received into his 

favour. 


8. Thy hand shall find. Hitherto the internal happiness 
of the kingdom has been described. Now there follows, as 
it was necessary there should, the celebration of its invincible 
strength against its enemies. What is said in this verse is 
of the same import as if the king had been pronounced 
victorious over all his enemies. I have just now remarked, 
that such a statement is not superfluous; for it would not 
have been enough for the kingdom to have flourished inter- 
nally, and to have been replenished with peace, riches, and 
abundance of all good things, had it not also been well forti- 
fied against the attacks of foreign enemies. This particularly 
applies to the kingdom of Christ, which is never without 
enemies in this world. ‘True, it is not always assailed by — 












XXL THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 851 


open war, and there is sometimes granted to it a period of 
respite; but the ministers of Satan never lay aside their 
malice and desire to do mischief, and therefore they never 
cease to plot and to endeavour to accomplish the overthrow 
of Christ's kingdom. It is well for us that our King, who 
e fts up his hand as a shield before us to defend us, is stronger 
 thanall. As the Hebrew word N¥, matsa, which is twice 
_ repeated, and which we have translated, ¢o find, sometimes 
- signifies fo suffice; and, as in the first clause, there is pre- 
fixed to the word b>, hal, which signifies all, the letter b, 
_ lamed, which signifies for, or against, and which is not 
_ prefixed to the Hebrew word which is rendered those that 
_ hate thee ; some expositors, because of this diversity, explain 
the verse as if it had been said, Thy hand shall be able for 
all thine enemies, thy right hand shall find out those that 
hate thee. Thus the sentence will ascend by degrees,— 
Thy hand shall be able to withstand, thy right hand shall 
lay hold upon thy enemies, so that they shall not escape 
destruction. 


9. Thou shalt put them as it were into a furnace of fire# 
_ The Psalmist here describes a dreadful kind of vengeance, 
from which we gather, that he does not speak of every kind 
of enemies in general, but of the malicious and frantic 


1 French and Skinner’s translation of these words is the same, and so 

also is that of Ro This last author observes, ‘‘ The common inter- 

ion, Thou shalt make them like a fiery oven, &c., is not very intel- 

Fie. consider 3n> as put by ellipsis for wares, Thou shalt place 

as it were Gn] @ furnace of fire.”—(Rogers’ Book of Psalms, in 

Hebrew, metrically rece ae il. p. 178.) Poole takes the same view. 

in, however, in his ch version, . a translation much the 

same as that of our lish version: ‘* Tu les rendras comme une four- 

naise de feu en temps de ta cholere.” ‘* Thou shalt make them like a 

furnace of fire, in the time of thy anger.” This is exactly the rendering 

of Horsley, in which he is followed by Walford. ‘It describes,” says the 

learned prelate, “‘ the smoke of the Messiah’s enemies perishing by fire, 

ing like the smoke of a furnace. ‘ The smoke of their torment 

shall ascend for ever and ever.’” ‘* How awfully grand,” says Bishop 

_ Mant, “ is that description of the ruins of the cities of the plain, as the 

prospect struck on Abraham’s eye on the fatal morning of their destruc- 

tion: * And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all 

the land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo! the smoke of the country went 
__up as the smoke of a furnace.’” 






% 


852 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXI. 


despisers of God, who, after the manner of the giants! of old, 
rise up against his only begotten Son. The very severity of 
the punishment shows the greatness of the wickedness. 
Some think that David alludes to the kind of punishment 
which he inflicted upon the Ammonites, of which we have 
an account in the sacred history ; but it is more probable 
that he here sets forth metaphorically the dreadful destruc- 
tion which awaits all the adversaries of Christ. They may 
burn with rage against the Church, and set the world on 
fire by their cruelty, but when their wickedness shall have 
reached its highest pitch, there is this reward which God 
has in reserve for them, that he will cast them into his burn- 
ing furnace to consume them. In the first clause, the king is 
called an avenger; in the second, this office is transferred to 
God; and in the third, the execution of the vengeance is 
attributed to fire; which three things very well agree. We 
know that judgment has been committed to Christ, that he 
may cast his enemies headlong into everlasting fire; but it 
was of importance distinctly to express that this is not the 
judgment of man but of God. Nor was it less important to 
set forth how extreme and dreadful a kind of vengeance this 
is, in order to arouse from their torpor those who, unappre- 
hensive of danger, boldly despise all the threatenings of God. 
Besides, this serves not a little for the consolation of the 
righteous. We know how dreadful the cruelty of the ungod- 
ly is, and that our faith would soon sink under it, if it did 
not rise to the contemplation of the judgment of God. The 
expression, Jn the time of thy wrath, admonishes us that we 
ought patiently to bear the cross as long as it shall please 
the Lord to exercise and humble us under it. If, therefore, 
he does not immediately put forth his power to destroy the 
ungodly, let us learn to extend our hope to the time which 
our heavenly Father has appointed in his eternal purpose for 
the execution of his judgment, and when our King, armed 
with his terrible power, will come forth to execute vengeance. 
While he now seems to take no notice, this does not imply 
that he has forgotten either himself or us. On the contrary, 


1 The allusion is to the fabulous giants of heathen mythology, who 
waged war against heaven. 


EE 


PSALM XXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 353 


he laughs at the madness of those who go on in the commis- 


sion of every kind of sin without any fear of danger, and 
become more presumptuous day after day. This laughter of 
God, it is true, brings little comfort to us; but we must, 
nevertheless, complete the time of our condition of warfare 


till “the day of the Lord’s vengeance” come, which, as 


Isaiah declares, (chap. xxxiy. 8,) shall also be “the year of 
our redemption.” It does not seem to me to be out of place 
to suppose, that in the last clause, there is denounced against 
the enemies of Christ a destruction like that which God in 
old time sent upon Sodom and Gomorrah. That punish- 


ment was a striking and memorable example above all 


others of the judgment of God against all the wicked, or 
rather it was, as it were, a visible image upon earth of the 
eternal fire of hell which is prepared for the reprobate : and 
hence this similitude is frequently to be met with in the 
sacred writings. 


10. Thou shalt destroy their fruit from the earth. David 
amplifies the greatness of God’s wrath, from the circumstance 
that it shall extend even to the children of the wicked. It 
is a doctrine common enough in Scripture, that God not only 
inflicts punishment upon the first originators of wickedness, 
but makes it even to overflow into the bosom of their child- 
ren.’ And yet when he thus pursues his vengeance to the 
third and fourth generation, he cannot be said indiscrimi- 
nately to involve the innocent with the guilty. As the seed of 
the ungodly, whom he has deprived of his grace, are accursed, 
and as all are by nature children of wrath, devoted to ever- 
lasting destruction, he is no less just in exercising his severity 
towards the children than towards the fathers. Who can 
lay any thing to his charge, if he withhold from those who 
are unworthy of it the grace which he communicates to his 
own children? In both ways he shows how dear and precious 
to him is the kingdom of Christ; first, in extending his 
mercy to the children of the righteous even to a thousand 


1 Mais qu'il le fait mesme regorger au sein des enfans d’iceux.”—Fr, 


~ See Isaiah Ixv. 6, 7. 


VOL, I. Z 


354 . COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXI. 


generations; and, secondly, in causing his wrath to rest upon 
the reprobate, even to the third and fourth generation. 


11. For they have spread out' evil against thee; they have devised 
a stratagem against thee, which they could not accomplish. 

12. For? thouwilt set them as a butt; thou wilt prepare thy bow- 
strings to shoot against their faces. 

13. Raise thyself, O Jehovah! in thy strength ; then we will sing, 
and celebrate in psalms thy power. 


11. For they have spread out. In this verse David shows 
that the ungodly had deserved the awful ruin which he pre- 


dicted would befall them, since they had not only molesteda 


mortal man, but had also rushed forth in the fury of their 
pride to make war against God himself. No man, as has | 
been stated in our exposition of the second psalm, could 
offer violence to the kingdom of Israel, which was consecrat- 
ed in the person of David, by the commandment of God, 
without making foul and impious war against God. Much 
more when persons directly attack the kingdom of Christ to 
overthrow it, is the majesty of God violated, since it is the 
will of God to reign in the world only by the hand of his 
Son. As the Hebrew word iQ}, natah, which we have 
translated to spread out, also sometimes signifies to turn aside, 
it may not unsuitably be here rendered either way. Accord- 
ing to the first view the meaning is, that the wicked, as if 
they had spread out their nets, endeavoured to subject to 
themselves the power of God. According to the second the 
meaning is, that for the purpose of hindering, and as it were 
swallowing up his power,’ they turned aside their malice, so 
as to make it bear against it, just like a man who, haying 
dug a great ditch, turned aside the course of some torrent to 
make it fall within it. The Psalmist next declares, that they 
devised a stratagem, or device, which would fail of its aceom- 
plishment. By these words he rebukes the foolish arrogance 
of those who, by making war against God, manifest a reck- 


1 Ou, ont decliné.”—Fr. ‘“ Or, have turned aside.” 

? This verse explains the reason why they could not accomplish what 
they had devised. 

3 “ Pour icelle empescher et comme engloutir.”—Fr. 





: 
2, 


PSALM XXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 855 


Tessness and an audacity which will undertake any thing, 


however daring. 


12. For thou wilt set them as a butt. As the Hebrew word 
(3, shekem, which we have rendered a butt, properly sig- 
nifies a shoulder, some understand it in that sense here, and 
explain the sentence thus: Their heads shall be smitten 
with heavy blows, so that having their bodies bended, their 
shoulders shall appear sticking out. According to these 
interpreters, the subjugation of the enemies of God is here 
metaphorically pointed out. But there is another explana- 
tion which is more generally received even among the 
Jewish expositors, namely, that God will shut them up 
in some corner, and there keep them from doing mischief ;' 
and they take this view, because the Hebrew word Mpy, 
shehem, is often used to denote a corner, quarter, or place. 
As, however, the sacred writer, in the clause immediately 
following, represents God as furnished with a bow, ready 
to shoot his arrows directly in their faces, I have no doubt 
that, continuing his metaphor, he compares them to a butt, 
or mound of earth, on which it is customary to plant the 
mark which is aimed at, and thus the sense will flow very 
naturally thus: Lord, thou wilt make them as it were a 
butt against which to shoot thine arrows.? The great object 
which the Psalmist has in view is doubtless to teach us to 
exercise patience, until God, at the fit time, bring the un- 
godly to their end. 


1 Kimchi and others read, ‘‘ Thou wilt put them into a corner ;” which 
has been understood in this sense, ‘‘ Thou wilt thrust them into a corner, 
and then direct thine arrows against their faces.”—See Poole’s Synopsis 


Criticorum. 
* This is the view taken by Ainsworth, Castellio, Cocceius, Diodati, 
Dathe, Horsley, and Fry. Horsley translates the verse thus :— 


“Truly thou shalt make them a butt for thine arrows :* 
Thou shalt take a steady aim against them.” 


“TI take,” says he, “jn>, [the word which he translates a steady aim,] 
to be a technical term of archery, to express the act of taking aim at a 
particular object.” In our English version it is, “‘ Therefore thou shalt 
make them turn their backs.” In defence of this sense of mow, shekem, 


see Merrick’s Annotations. Gesenius takes the word in the same sense. 


* Literally, “ thy bow-strings.” 


356 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


13. Raise thyself, O Jehovah ! The psalm is at length con- 
cluded with a prayer, which again confirms that the king- 
dom which is spoken of is so connected with the glory of 
God, that his power is reflected from it. This was no doubt 
true with respect to the kingdom of David; for God in old 
time displayed his power in exalting him to the throne. But 
what is here stated was only fully accomplished in Christ, 
who was appointed by the heavenly Father to be King over 
us, and who is at the same time God manifest in the flesh. 
As his divine power ought justly to strike terror into the 
wicked, so it is described as full of the sweetest consolation 
to us, which ought to inspire us with joy, and incite us to 
celebrate it with songs of praise and thanksgivings. 


PSALM XXII. 


David complains in this psalm, that he is reduced to such circumstances 
of distress that he is like a man in despair. But after having recount- 
ed the calamities with which he was so severely afflicted, he emerges 

' from the abyss of temptations, and gathering courage, comforts him- 
self with the assurance of deliverance. At the same time, he sets 
before us, in his own person, a type of Christ, who he knew by the 
Spirit of prophecy behoved to be abased in marvellous and unusual 
ways! previous to his exaltation by the Father. Thus the psalm, in 
the two parts of which it consists, explains that prophecy of Isaiah, 
(chap. liii. 8,) ‘‘He was taken from prison and from judgment: and 
who shall declare his generation ?” 


§ To the chief musician. Upon the hind of the morning. A psalm of Dayid. 


This inscription is obscure ; but interpreters have needlessly perplexed 
themselves in seeking after I know not what sublime mystery in a mat- 
ter of small importance. Some are of opinion that the word nx, ayeleth, 
means the morning star ;* others that it denotes strength;? but it is 


1 « En toutes les sortes qu'il est possible de penser."—Fr. ‘In every 
way which it is possible to conceive.” 
And this title they say is prefixed to the psalm, because the whole of 
it is concerning Christ the morning star. 
+ Those who render it strength derive the word from bw, eyl, strength, and 





- PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 357 


more correctly rendered hind. As it is evident, from the testimony of 


the apostles, that this psalm is a prophecy concerning Christ, the ancient 
interpreters thought that Christ would not be sufficiently dignified and hon- 
oured unless, putting a mystical or allegorical sense upon the word hind, 
they viewed it as pointing out the various things which are included 
in a sacrifice. Those, also, who prefer translating the original words, 
spenndw, ayeleth hashachar, the dawn of the day or morning, have endea- 
voured to do the same thing. But as I find no solidity in these sub- 
tleties, it will be better to take that view of the title which is more simple 
and natural. I think it highly probable that it was the beginning of 
some common song; nor do I see how the inscription bears any relation 
to the subject-matter of the psalm. From the tenor of the whole com- 
position, it appears that David does not here refer merely to one per- 
secution, but comprehends all the persecutions which he suffered under 
Saul. It is, however, uncertain whether he composed this psalm when 
he peaceably enjoyed his kingdom, or in the time of his affliction ; 
but there is no doubt that he here describes the thoughts which passed 
through his mind in the midst of his troubles, perplexities, and sorrows. 


1. My God! my God! why hast thou forsaken me? Why art 
thou far from my help, and from the words of my roaring ? 

2. Omy God! I cry in the day-time,? but thou hearest not : 
and in the night-season, and there is no silence to me. 


1. My God! The first verse contains two remarkable sen- 
tences, which, although apparently contrary to each other, 
are yet ever entering into the minds of the godly together. 
When the Psalmist speaks of being forsaken and cast off by 
God, it seems to be the complaint of a man in despair ; for 
can a man have a single spark of faith remaining in him, 
when he believes that there is no longer any succour for him 
in God? And yet, in calling God twice his own God, and 
depositing his groanings into his bosom, he makes a very 
distinct confession of his faith. With this inward conflict 
the godly must necessarily be exercised whenever God with~- 
draws from them the tokens of his favour, so that, in whatever 
direction they turn their eyes, they see nothing but the dark- 


observe, that the cognate word in verse 20, sm>wx, eyaluthi, is rendered by 
the Septuagint ry» Bondeay mov, my aid or gy ay By the strength of 
the morning they understand the dawning of the day. 

! This is the sense in which Lightfoot sndorthanca the words. 

2“ Mon Dieu, je crie tout le jour."—Fr. “O my God, I cry all the 


- day.” 


358 - COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


ness of night. I say, that the people of God, in wrestling 
with themselves, on the one hand discover the weakness of 
the flesh, and on the other give evidence of their faith. 
With respect to the reprobate, as they cherish in their hearts 
their distrust of God, their perplexity of mind overwhelms 
them, and thus totally incapacitates them for aspiring after 
the grace of God by faith. That David sustained the assaults 
of temptation, without being overwhelmed, or swallowed up 
by it, may be easily gathered from his words. He was 
greatly oppressed with sorrow, but notwithstanding this, he 
breaks forth into the language of assurance, My God! my 
God! which he could not have done without vigorously 
resisting the contrary apprehension’ that God had forsaken 
him. There is not one of the godly who does not daily 
experience in himself the same thing. According to the 
judgment of the flesh, he thinks he is cast off and forsaken 
by God, while yet he apprehends by faith the grace of God, 
which is hidden from the eye of sense and reason; and thus 
it comes to pass, that contrary affections are mingled and 
interwoven in the prayers of the faithful. Carnal sense and 
reason cannot but conceive of God as being either favourable — 
or hostile, according to the present condition of things which 
is presented to their view. When, therefore, he suffers us to 
lie long \in sorrow, and as it were to pine away under it, we 
must necessarily feel, according to the apprehension of the 
flesh, as if he had quite forgotten us. When such a per- 
plexing thought takes entire possession of the mind of man, 
it overwhelms him in profound unbelief, and he neither seeks, 
nor any longer expects, to find a remedy. But if faith come 
to his aid against such a temptation, the same person who, 
judging from the outward appearance of things, regarded — 
God as incensed against. him, or as having abandoned him, 
beholds in the mirror of the promises the grace of God 
which is hidden and distant. Between these two contrary 
affections the faithful are agitated, and, as it were, fluctuate, 
when Satan, on the one hand, by exhibiting to their view 


_ 1 “Ce qu'il ne pouvoit faire si non en resistant vivement & la apprehen- 
sion contraire.”—Fr, 





PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS, 859 


the signs of the wrath of God, urges them on to despair, and 
endeayours entirely to overthrow their faith ; while faith, on 
the other hand, by calling them back to the promises, 
teaches them to wait patiently and to trust in God, until he 
again show them his fatherly countenance. 

We see then the source from which proceeded this excla- 
- mation, My God! my God! and from which also proceeded 
the complaint which follows immediately after, Why hast 
thou forsaken me? Whilst the vehemence of grief, and the 
infirmity of the flesh, forced from the Psalmist these words, 
I am forsaken of God; faith, lest he should when so severely 
tried sink into despair, put into his mouth a correction of 
this language, so that he boldly called God, of whom he 
thought he was forsaken, his God. Yea, we see that he has 
given the first place to faith. Before he allows himself to 
utter his complaint, in order to give faith the chief place, he 
first declares that he still claimed God as his own God, and 
betook himself to him for refuge. And as the affections of 
the flesh, when once they break forth, are not easily restrained, 
but rather carry us beyond the bounds of reason, it is surely 
well to repress them at the very commencement. David, 
therefore, observed the best possible order in giving his faith 
the precedency—in expressing it before giving vent to his 
sorrow, and in qualifying, by devout prayer, the complaint 
which he afterwards makes with respect to the greatness of 
his calamities. Had he spoken simply and precisely in these 
terms, Lord, why forsakest thou me ? he would have seemed, 
by a complaint so bitter, to murmur against God; and 
besides, his mind would have been in great danger of being 
embittered with discontent through the greatness of his 
grief. But, by here raising up against murmuring and dis- 
content the rampart of faith, he keeps all his thoughts and 
feelings under restraint, that they may not break beyond 
due bounds. Nor is the repetition superfluous when he 
twice calls God his God ; and, a little after, he even repeats 
the same words the third time. When God, as if he had 
cast off all care about us, passes over our miseries and groan- 
ings as if he saw them not, the conflict with this species of 
temptation is arduous and painful, and therefore David the 


360 COMMENTARY UPON - PSALM XXII. 


- 


more strenuously exerts himself in seeking the confirmation 
of his faith. Faith does not gain the victory at the first 
encounter, but after receiving many blows, and after being 
exercised with many tossings, she at length comes forth 
victorious. I do not say that David was so courageous and 
valiant a champion as that his faith did not waver. The faith- 
ful may put forth all their efforts to subdue their carnal 
affections, that they may subject and devote themselves 
wholly to God; but still there is always some infirmity 
remaining in them. From this proceeded that halting of 
holy Jacob, of which Moses makes mention in Gen. xxxii. 
24; for although in wrestling with God he prevailed, yet 
he ever after bore the mark of his sinful defect. By such 
examples God encourages his servants to perseverance, lest, 
from a consciousness of their own infirmity, they should sink 
into despair. The means therefore which we ought to adopt, 
whenever our flesh becomes tumultuous, and, like an impe- 
tuous tempest, hurries us into impatience, is to strive against 
it, and to endeavour to restrain its impetuosity. In doing 
this we will, it is true, be agitated and sorely tried, but our 
faith will, nevertheless, continue safe, and be preserved from 
shipwreck. Farther, we may gather from the very form of 
the complaint which David here makes, that he did not 
without cause redouble the words by which his faith might 
be sustained. He does not simply say that he was forsaken 
by God, but he adds, that God was far from his help, inas- 
much as when he saw him in the greatest danger, he gave 
him no token to encourage him in the hope of obtaining 
deliverance. Since God has the ability to succour us, if, 
when he sees us exposed as a prey to our enemies, he 
nevertheless sits still as if he cared not about us, who would 
not say that he has drawn back his hand that he may not 
deliver us? Again, by the expression, the words of my roar- 
ing, the Psalmist intimates that he was distressed and 
tormented in the highest degree. He certainly was not a 
man of so little courage as, on account of some slight or 
ordinary affliction, to howl in this manner like a brute beast." 


1 Et de faict, il n’estoit point de si petit courage, que pour quelque 


—_ Wa ee 
R . 


ee EE = 


PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 361 


We must therefore come to the conclusion, that the distress 
was very great which could extort such roaring from a man 
who was distinguished for meekness, and for the undaunted 
courage with which he endured calamities. 

As our Saviour Jesus Christ, when hanging on the cross, and 
when ready to yield uphis soul intothe hands of God his Father, 
made use of these very words, (Matth. xxvii. 46,) we must con- 
sider how these two things can agree, that Christ was the only 
begotten Son of God, and that yet he was so penetrated with 
grief, seized with so great mental trouble, as to cry out that 
God his Father had forsaken him. The apparent contradic- 
tion between these two statements has constrained many 
interpreters to have recourse to evasions for fear of charging 
Christ with blame in this matter.' Accordingly, they have 
said that Christ made this complaint rather according to the 
opinion of the common people, who witnessed his sufferings, 
than from any feeling which he had of being deserted by his 
Father. But they have not considered that they greatly 
lessen the benefit of our redemption, in imagining that Christ 
was altogether exempted from the terrors which the judgment 
of God strikes into sinners. It was a groundless fear to be 
afraid of making Christ subject to so great sorrow, lest they 
should diminish his glory. As Peter, in Acts ii. 24, clearly 
testifies that “ it was not possible that he should be holden 
of the pains of death,” it follows that he was not altogether 
exempted from them. And as he became our representative, 
and took upon him our sins, it was certainly necessary that 
he should appear before the judgment-seat of God as a 
sinner. From this proceeded the terror and dread which 
constrained him to pray for deliverance from death; not 
that it was so grievous to him merely to depart from this 
life; but because there was before his eyes the curse of God, 
to which all who are sinners are exposed. Now, if during 
his first conflict “his sweat was as it were great drops of 


mal leger il hurlast ainsi comme une beste brute.”"—Fr, “ The original 
am for roaring] properly denotes the roaring of a lion, and is often 
to the deep groaning of men in sickness. See among other 
<7 Ps. xxxii. 3; xxxviil. 9.”—Bishop Mant. 
1 « Pour crainte de charger Christ de ce blasme.”—Fr. 


362 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII, 
blood,” and he needed an angel to comfort him, (Luke xxii. 
43,) it is not wonderful if, in his last sufferings on the eross, 
he uttered a complaint which indicated the deepest sorrow. 
By the way, it should be marked, that Christ, although sub- 
ject to human passions and affections, never fell into sin 
through the weakness of the flesh ; for the perfection of his 
nature preserved him from all excess. He could therefore 
overcome all the temptations with which Satan assailed him, 
without receiving any wound in the conflict which might 
afterwards constrain him to halt. In short, there is no doubt 
that Christ, in uttering this exclamation upon the cross, mani- 
festly showed, that although David here bewails his own dis- 
tresses, this psalm was composed under the influence of the 
Spirit of prophecy concerning Dayid’s King and Lord. 


2. O my God! I cry in the day-time. In this verse the 
Psalmist expresses the long continuance of his affliction, which 
increased his disquietude and weariness. It was a tempta- 
tion even still more grievous, that his crying seemed only to 
be lost labour; for, as our only means of relief under our 
calamities is in calling upon God, if we derive no advantage 
from our prayers, what other remedy remains forus? Dayid, 
therefore, complains that God is in a manner deaf to his 
prayers. When he says in the second clause, And there is no 
silence to me, the meaning is, that he experienced no comfort 
or solace, nothing which could impart tranquillity to his 
troubled mind. As long as affliction pressed upon him, his 
mind was so disquieted, that he was constrained to ery out. 
Here there is shown the constancy of faith, in that the long 
duration of calamities could neither overthrow it, nor inter- 
rupt its exercise. The true rule of praying is, therefore, this, 
that he who seems to have beaten the air to no purpose, or 
to have lost his labour in praying for a long time, should not, 
on that account, leave off, or desist from that duty. Mean- 
while, there is this advantage which God in his fatherly kind- 
ness grants to his people, that if they have been disappointed 
at any time of their desires and expectations, they may make 
known to God their perplexities and distresses, and unburden 
them, as it were, into his bosom. 








é 


- PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 363 


3. Yet thou art holy, who inhabitest the praises of Israel. 
4. Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst 
deliver them. 

5. They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, 

Pet and were not confounded. 

6. But Iam a worm, and not a man ; the scorn of men, and the 

. contempt of the people. 

7. All those who see me mock at me ; they thrust out the lip, and 
shake the head. 

8. “ He has committed,” say they, ‘‘ his cause unto [or, devolved 
his cause upon] Jehovah :* let him deliver him, let him 
deliver him,? seeing he delights in him.” 


Se 


3. Yet thou art holy. In the Hebrew, it is properly, And 
thou art holy: but the copula }, vau, ought, without doubt, 
to be rendered by the adversative particle yet. Some think 
that the eternal and immutable state of God is here set in 
opposition to the afflictions which David experienced ;° but 
I cannot subscribe to this opinion. It is more simple and 
natural to view the language as meaning, that God has always 
shown himself gracious to his chosen people. The subject 
here treated is not what God is in heaven, but what he has 

- shown himself to be towards men. It may be asked, whether 
_ David, in these words, aggravates his complaint, by insinu- 
ating that he is the only person who obtains nothing from 
God? or whether, by holding up these words as a shield 
before him, he repels the temptation with which he was 
assailed, by exhibiting to his view this truth, that God is the 
continual deliverer of his people? I admit that tfis verse is 
an additional expression of the greatness of David’s grief; but 


1 Tn the Hebrew it is, “ He rolled [himself] upon God.” In the Latin 
version our author reads, “* Devolvit ad Jehovam ;” and in the French, 
* Tl a remis disent-ils, au Seigneur son affaire.” 

2 Let him deliver him, let him deliver him. This repetition is also the ren- 
dering adopted by Street, and it is approved by Poole. ‘The same thing,” 
says Poole, “ is twice repeated, to show both the vehemence of their hatred 
and their confidence of success against him.” 

3 As se, yashab, not ee signifies to inhabit, but also to remain or con- 
tinue, (see Psalm cii. 13,) Hammond thinks this last is the meaning here, 
and renders the word, “ But thou remainest or continuest to be holy, O 
thou, the praises of, or who art the praises of Israel, that is, the object of all 

i praises ; or more simply, But thou remainest holy, the praises of 


CRs. 


364 . COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


Ihave no doubt, that in using this language he seeks from it a 
remedy against his distrust. It was a dangerous temptation 
to see himself forsaken by God; and, accordingly, lest by 
continually thinking upon it, he should nourish it, he turned 
his mind to the contemplation of the constant evidences 
afforded of the grace of God, from which he might en- 
courage himself, in the hope of obtaining succour. He, 
therefore, not only meant to ask how it was that God, who 
had always dealt mercifully with his people, should now, for- 
getting as it were his own nature, thus leave a miserable man 
without any succour or solace; but he also takes a shield 
with which to defend himself against the fiery darts of Satan. 
He calls God holy, because he continues always like himself. 
He says that he inhabiteth the praises of Israel; because, in 
showing such liberality towards the chosen people, as to be 
continually bestowing blessings upon them, he furnished 
them with matter for continued praise and thanksgiving. 

Unless God cause us to taste of his goodness by doing us 
good, we must needs become mute in regard to the celebra- 
tion of his praise. As David belonged to the number of 
this chosen people, he strives, in opposition to all the ob- 
stacles which distrust might suggest as standing in the way, 
to cherish the hope that he shall at length be united to this 
body to sing along with them the praises of God. 


4. Our fathers trusted in thee. Here the Psalmist assigns 
the reason why God sitteth amidst the praises of the tribes 
of Israel. "The reason is, because his hand had been always 
stretched forth to preserve his faithful people. David, as I 
have just now observed, gathers together the examples of all 
past ages, in order thereby to encourage, strengthen, and effec- 
tually persuade himself, that as God had never cast off any of — 
his chosen people, he also would be one of the number of those 
for whom deliverance is securely laid up in the hand of God. 
He therefore expressly declares that he belongs to the off- 
spring of those who had been heard, intimating by this, that 
he is an heir of the same grace which they had experienced. 
He has an eye to the covenant by which God had adopted — 
the posterity of Abraham to be his peculiar people. It would 





ee ee a | 


Ts aS 


PSALM XXII. TIE BOOK OF PSALMS. 365 


be of little consequence to know the varied instances in 
which God has exercised his mercy towards his own people, 
unless each of us could reckon himself among their number, 
as David includes himself in the Church of God. In repeat- 
ing three times that the fathers had obtained deliverance by 
trusting, there is no doubt that with all modesty he intends 
tacitly to intimate that he had the same hope with which 
they were inspired, a hope which draws after it, as its effect, 
the fulfilment of the promises in our behalf. In order that a 
man may derive encouragement from the blessings which 
God has bestowed upon his servants in former times, he 
should turn his attention to the free promises of God’s word, 
and to the faith which leans upon them. In short, to show 
that this confidence was neither cold nor dead, David tells 
us, at the same time, that they cried unto God. He who 
pretends that he trusts in God, and yet is so listless and 
indifferent under his calamities that he does not implore his 
aid, lies shamefully. By prayer, then, true faith is known, as 
the goodness of a tree is known by its fruit. It ought also to 
be observed, that God regards no other prayers as right but 
those which proceed from faith, and are accompanied with it. 
It is therefore not without good reason that David has put 
the word cried in the middle between these words, They 
trusted in thee, they trusted, in the fourth verse, and these 
words, They trusted in thee, in the fifth verse. 


6. But Iam a worm, and not a man. David does not mur- 
mur against God as if God had dealt hardly with him ; but in 
bewailing his condition, he says, in order the more effectually 
to induce God to show him mercy, that he is not accounted 
somuch asaman. This, it is true, seems at first sight to 
have a tendency to discourage the mind, or rather to destroy 
faith; but it will appear more clearly from the sequel, that 
so far from this being the case, David declares how miserable 
his condition is, that by this means he may encourage him- 
self in the hope of obtaining relief. He therefore argues that 
it could not be but that God would at length stretch forth 
his hand to save him; to save him, I say, who was so severely 

-alicted, and on the brink of despair. If God has had com- 


366 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII, — 


passion on all who have ever been afflicted, although afflieted 
only in a moderate degree, how could he forsake his servant 
when plunged in the lowest abyss of all calamities ? When- 
ever, therefore, we are overwhelmed under a great weight of 
afflictions, we ought rather to take from this an argument to 
encourage us to hope for deliverance, than suffer ourselves to 
fall into despair. If God so severely exercised his most emi- 
nent servant David, and abased him so far that he had not a 
place even among the most despised of men, let us not take 
it ill, if, after his example, we are brought low. We ought, 
however, principally to call to our remembrance the Son of 
God, in whose person we know this also was fulfilled, as 
Isaiah had predicted, (ch. lili. 3;) “ He is despised and re- - 
jected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: 
and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, 
and we esteemed him not.” By these words of the prophet 
we are furnished with a sufficient refutation of the frivolous 
subtlety of those who have philosophised upon the word — 
worm, as if David here pointed out some singular mystery in 
the generation of Christ ; whereas his meaning simply is, that 
he had been abased beneath all men, and, as it were, cut off 
from the number of living beings. The fact that the Son of 
God suffered himself to be reduced to such ignominy, yea, de- 
scended even to hell, is so far from obscuring, in any respect, 
his celestial glory, that it is rather a bright mirror from which 
is reflected his unparalleled grace towards us. 












7. All those who see me mock at me, &c.' This is an expla- 
nation of the preceding sentence. He had said that he was 
an object of scorn to the lowest of men, and, as it were, to 
the refuse of the people. He now informs us of the igno- — 


1 Bishop Horsley reads these words, ‘* All who see me insult [me] with 
estures of derision :” and says, ‘‘ I can no otherwise render the 39, 
than by this periphrasis.” Bishop Mant translates the whole verse thus: — 
** All who to slaughter see me led, 
Deride my state distrest ; 
They curl the lip, they shake the head, 
They point the taunting jest :” 


And observes, ‘* The distinctness and colouring of the prophetic pitas 
here are as striking to the imagination, as the subject is painful tothe 


ae le ee GG eee eee 


- PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 367 


miny with which he had been treated,—that not content 


with opprobrious language, they also showed their insolence 
by their very gesture, both by shooting out their lips,’ and 
by shaking their heads. As the words which we render they 
thrust out the lip, is, in the Hebrew, they open with the lip,” 

some explain them as meaning @o rail. But this view does not 
appear to me to be appropriate; for the letter 3, beth, which 
signifies with, is here superfluous, as it often is in the Hebrew. 
T have therefore preferred rendering the original words, they 
thrust out the lip; which is the gesture of those who mock 
openly and injuriously. The reproachful language which 
follows was much more grievous when they alleged against 
him that God, who he openly avowed was his father, was 
turned away from him. We know that David, when he 
saw himself unjustly condemned of the world, was accustomed 
to support and console himself with the assurance, that since 
he had the approving testimony of a good conscience, he had 
God in heaven for his guardian, who was able to execute 
vengeance upon his revilers.* But now, all who saw him 
reproached him, that with vain arrogance he had groundlessly 
boasted of the succour he would receive from God. Where 
is that God, say they, on whom he leaned? Where is that 
love to which he trusted? Satan has not a more deadly dart 
for wounding the souls of men than when he endeavours to 
dislodge hope from our minds, by turning the promises of 
God into ridicule. David’s enemies, however, do not simply 
say that his prayers were in vain, and that the love of God of 
which he boasted was fallacious; but they indirectly charge him 
with being a hypocrite, in that he falsely pretended to be one of 
the children of God, from whom he was altogether estranged. 
~ How severe a temptation this must have been to David 
every man may judge from his own experience. But by the 
remedy he used he afforded a proof of the sincerity of his 
confidence: for unless he had had God as the undoubted 


1 “ To protrude the lower lip is, in the East, considered a very strong 
indication of contempt. Its employment is chiefly confined to the lower 
orders.” —Jilustrated Commentary upon the Bible. 

* bes, besaphah, with the lip. 

§ * Qu’'ilavoit Dieu au ciel pour garent qui scavoit bien faire la ven- 


~ gence de ses mesdisans.”— Jr. 


368 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XxIl. 
witness and approver of the sincerity of his heart, he would 
never have dared to come before him with this complaint. 
Whenever, therefore, men charge us with hypocrisy, let it 
be our endeavour that the inward sincerity of our hearts may 
answer for us before God. And whenever Satan attempts 
to dislodge faith from our minds, by biting detraction and 
cruel derision, let this be our sacred anchor,—to call upon 
God to witness it, and that, beholding it, he may be pleased 
to show his righteousness in maintaining our right, since his 
holy name cannot be branded with viler blasphemy than to 
say that those who put their trust in him are puffed up with 
vain confidence, and that those who persuade themselves — 
that God loves them deceive themselves with a groundless 
fancy. As the Son of God was assailed with the same 
weapon, it is certain that Satan will not be more sparing of 
true believers who are his members than ofhim. They ought, 
therefore, to defend themselves from this consideration—that 
although men may regard them as in a desperate condition, 
yet, if they commit to God both themselves and all their 
affairs, their prayers will not be in vain. By the verb, Ss, gol, 
which is rendered to commit, the nature and efficacy of faith 
are very well expressed, which, reposing itself upon the provi- 
dence of God, relieves our minds from the burdens of the 
cares and troubles with which they are agitated. 


9. Surely thou didst draw me forth from the womb, and thou 
didst cause me to confide upon the breasts of my mother 
10. I was cast upon thee® from the womb: thou art my God from 
my mother’s belly. 
1l. Depart not far from me, for distress is near, and there is none 
to help me. 


9. Surely thou. David again here raises a new fortress, 
in order to withstand and repel the machinations of Satan. 


1 «+ Qui m’as donné asseurance, lorsque je sucgoye les mammelles de ma 
mere.”—Note, Fr. marg. “ That is, thou gavest me confidence whilst I 
sucked the breasts of my mother.” 

2“ Abandonné entre tes mains.”—Note, Fr. marg. “That is, left 
among thy hands.” Poole, applying this to Christ, says, ‘* I was like one 
forsaken by his parent, and cast wholly upon thy providence. I had no 
father upon earth ; and my mother was poor and helpless.” 

. 


— = 


ee ee ee ee ee 


a Oa aS OL 


“eT 


PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 869 


He briefly enumerates the benefits which God had bestowed 
upon him, by which he had long since learned that he was 
his father. Yea, he declares that even before he was born 
God had shown towards him such evidence of his fatherly 
love, that although now overwhelmed with the darkness of 
death, he might upon good ground venture to hope for life 
from him. And it is the Holy Spirit who teaches the faith- 
ful the wisdom to collect together, when they are brought 
into circumstances of fear and trouble, the evidences of the 
goodness of God, in order thereby to sustain and strengthen 
their faith. We ought to regard it as an established prin- 
ciple, that as God never wearies in the exercise of his liber- 
ality, and as the most exuberant bestowment cannot exhaust 
his riches, it follows that, as we have experienced him to 
be a father from our earliest infancy, he will show himself the 
same towards us even to extreme old age. In acknowledg- 
ing that he was taken from the womb by the hand of God, 
and that God had caused him to confide upon the breasts of his 
mother, the meaning is, that although it is by the operation 
of natural causes that infants come into the world, and are 
nourished with their mother’s milk, yet therein the wonder- 
ful providence of God brightly shines forth. This miracle, it 
is true, because ofits ordinary occurrence, is made less account 
of by us. But if ingratitude did not put upon our eyes the 
veil of stupidity, we would be ravished with admiration at 
every childbirth in the world. What prevents the child from 
perishing, as it might, a hundred times in its own corruption, 
before the time for bringing it forth arrives, but that God, by 
his secret and incomprehensible power, keeps it alive in its 
grave? And after it is brought into the world, seeing it is 
subject to so many miseries, and cannot stir a finger to help 
itself, how could it live even for a single day, did not God take 
it up into his fatherly bosom to nourish and protect it? It 
is, therefore, with good reason said, that the infant is cast upon 
him; for, unless he fed the tender little babes, and watched 
over all the offices of the nurse, even at the very time of their 
being brought forth, they are exposed to a hundred deaths, 
by which they would be suffocated in an instant. Finally, 


- Dayid concludes that God was his God. God, it is true, to 


VOL, I. QA 


370 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


all appearance, shows the like goodness which is here cele- 
brated even to the brute creation; but it is only to mankind 
that he shows himself to be a father in a special manner. 
And although he does not immediately endue babes with 
the knowledge of himself, yet he is said to give them confi- 
dence, because, by showing in fact that he takes care of their 
life, he in a manner allures them to himself; as it is said 
in another place, “ He giveth to the beast his food, and to 
the young ravens which cry,” (Ps. cxlvii. 9.) Since God 
anticipates in this manner, by his grace, little infants before 
they have as yet the use of reason, it is certain that he will 
never disappoint the hope of his servants when they petition 
and call upon him. This is the argument by which Dayid 
struggled with, and endeavoured to overcome temptation. 


11. Depart not far from me. Here he employs another 
argument to induce God to show him mercy, alleging that 
he is sorely pressed and hemmed in by the greatest distress. 
He doubtless set before his eyes the office which the Serip- 
tures every where attribute to God of succouring the miser- 
able, and of being the more ready to help us the more we 
are afflicted. Even despair itself, therefore, served as a lad- 
der to elevate his mind to the exercise of devout and fervent 
prayer. In like manner, the feeling we have of our afflie- 
tions should excite us to take shelter under the wings of 
God, that by granting us his aid, he may show that he takes 
a deep interest in our welfare. 


12, Strong bulls have encompassed me; the bulls of Bashan have 
beset me round. 

13. They have opened their mouth against me, as a ravening and 
a roaring lion. 

14. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are disjointed : 
my heart is like wax ; it is melted in the midst of my bowels. 

15. My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue cleaveth 
to my jaws ; and thou hast brought me to the dust of death. 

16. For dogs have encompassed me; the assembly of the wicked have 
surrounded me: they have pierced my hands and my feet. 


12. Strong bulls have encompassed me. The Psalmist now 


— a 


a —— 


ae 





PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 871 


_ complains of the cruelty and barbarous rage of his enemies ; 


and he compares them first to bulls, secondly to lions, and 
thirdly to dogs. When the anger of bulls is kindled, we 
know how fierce and terrible they are. The lion, also, is a 
cruel beast, and dreadful to mankind. And the eager and 
fierce boldness with which dogs, when once they are irritat- 
ed, rush upon a man to do him injury, is well known. In 
short, David’s enemies were so blood-thirsty and cruel, that 
they more resembled wild beasts than men. He calls them 
not simply bulls, but strong bulls. Instead of rendering the 
original word 95, rabbim, strong, as we have done, some 
would render it many: with which I cannot agree. David, 
it is true, was assailed by great hosts of enemies; but it ap- 
pears, from the second clause of the verse, that what is here 
described is their strength, and not their number. He there 
terms them the bulls of Bashan; meaning by that expression, 
well-fed bulls, and, consequently, large and strong: for we 
know that the hill of Bashan was distinguished for rich and 


fat pastures. 


14. I am poured out like water. Hitherto he has informed 
us that being surrounded by wild beasts, he was not far from 
death, as if he had been at the point of being devoured every 
moment. He now bewails, in addition to this, his inward 
distress; from which we learn that he was not stupid or 
insensible in dangers. It could have been no ordinary fear 
which made him almost pine away, by which his bones were 
disjointed, and his heart poured out like water. We see, 
then, that David was not buffeted with the waves of afflic- 
tion like a rock which cannot be moved, but was agitated 
within by sore troubles and temptations, which, through the 
infirmity of the flesh, he would never have been able to sus- 
tain had he not been aided by the power of the Spirit of 
God. How these sufferings are applicable to Christ I have 
informed you a little before. Being a real man, he was truly 
subject to the infirmities of our flesh, only without the taint of 
sin. The perfect purity of his nature did not extinguish the 


1 The bull is known to be a fierce animal, and those of Bashan, from 
its luxuriant pastures, were uncommonly so.”"——Dr Geddes. 


372 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


human affections; it only regulated them, that they might 
not become sinful through excess. The greatness of his 
griefs, therefore, could not so weaken him as to prevent him, 
even in the midst of his most excruciating sufferings, from sub- 
mitting himself to the will of God, with a composed and peace- 
ful mind. Now, although this is not the case with respect 
to us, who have within us turbulent and disorderly affections, 
and who never can keep them under such restraint as not 
to be driven hither and thither by their impetuosity, yet, 
after the example of David, we ought to take courage; and 
when, through our infirmity, we are, as it were, almost life- 
less, we should direct our groanings to God, beseeching him 
that he would be graciously pleased to restore us to strength 
and vigour." 


15. My strength is dried up. He means the vigour which 
is imparted to us by the radical moisture, as physicians call 
it. What he adds in the next clause, My tongue cleaveth to 
my jaws, is of the same import. We know that excessive 
grief not only consumes the vital spirits, but also dries up 
almost all the moisture which is in our bodies. He next 
declares, that in consequence of this, he was adjudged or 
devoted to the grave: Thou hast brought me to the dust of 
death. By this he intimates, that all hope of life was taken 
from him; and in this sense Paul also says, (2 Cor. i. 9,) 
that “he had received the sentence of death in himself.” 
But David here speaks of himself in hyperbolical language, 
and he does this in order to lead us beyond himself to Christ. 
The dreadful encounter of our Redeemer with death, by 
which there was forced from his body blood instead of sweat ; 
his descent into hell, by which he tasted of the wrath of God 
which was due to sinners ; and, in short, his emptying himself, 
could not be adequately expressed by any of the ordinary forms 
of speech. Moreover, David speaks of death as those who 
are in trouble are accustomed to speak of it, who, struck with 
fear, can think of nothing but of their being reduced to dust 
and to destruction. Whenever the minds of the saints are 


1 “A ce qu'il luy plaise nous remettre sus, et nous rendre force et 
vigueur.”—Fr, 


”  ————— EE 





PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 373 


surrounded and oppressed with this darkness, there is always 
some unbelief mixed with their exercise, which prevents them 
from all at once emerging from it to the light of a new life. 
But in Christ these two things were wonderfully conjoined, 
namely, terror, proceeding from a sense of the curse of God; 
and patience, arising from faith, which tranquillized all the 
mental emotions, so that they continued in complete and 
willing subjection to the authority of God. With respect 
to ourselves, who are not endued with the like power, if at 
any time, upon beholding nothing but destruction near us, 
we are for a season greatly dismayed, we should endeavour 
by degrees to recover courage, and to elevate ourselves to 
the hope which quickens the dead. 


16. They have pierced my hands and my feet. The original 
word, which we have translated they have pierced, is *"\W3, caari, 
which literally rendered is, like a lion. As all the Hebrew 
Bibles at this day, without exception, have this reading, I 
would have had great hesitation in departing from a reading 
which they all support, were it not that the scope of the 
discourse compels me to do so, and were there not strong 
grounds for conjecturing that this passage has been fraudu- 
lently corrupted by the Jews. With respect to the Septua- 
gint version, there is no doubt that the translators had read 
in the Hebrew text, "N53, cadru, that is the letter }, vau, 
where there is now the letter ', yod.1_ The Jews prate much 
about the literal sense being purposely and deliberately over- 


1 This word has created much discussion. In the Hebrew Bible, the 
kethib or textual reading is, >, cadiri, like a lion; the keri, or marginal 
reading, is "ws, cadiru, “* they pierced,” from ">, carah, to cut, dig, or 


pierce. Both readings are supported by MSS. There is, however, no 


ground to doubt that the genuine reading is, >, cadru. As the Septua- 
int here reads weve», they pierced, the translators, doubtless, considered 
that the correct reading of the. Hebrew text was mx, cadru, The Vul- 
gees Syriac, Arabic, and Ethiopic, give a similar rendering, All the 
ists also quote and apply the paras the crucifixion of Christ. 
Besides, the other reading, ‘>, caéiri, as a lion, renders the passage unin- 
telligible. The Chaldee version has combined both the ideas of pierced and 
as a lion, reading, “ Biting, as a lion, my hands and my feet.” Our author 
supposes that the text has been fraudulently corrupted by the Jews, who 
have intentionally mw, cadru, into “ws, cadiri. But there is no 
necessity for supposing that there has been any fraud in the case. In the 


process of transcription, the change might have been made unintentionally, 


374 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


thrown, by our rendering the original word by they have 
pierced: but for this allegation there is no colour of truth 
whatever. What need was there to trifle so presumptuously 
in a matter where it was altogether unnecessary? Very great 
suspicion of falsehood, however, attaches to them, seeing it is 
the uppermost desire of their hearts to despoil the crucified 
Jesus of his escutcheons, and to divest him of his character as 
the Messiah and Redeemer. If we receive this reading as 
they would have us to do, the sense will be enveloped in 
marvellous obscurity. In the first place, it will be a defec- 
tive form of expression; and to complete it, they say it is 
necessary to supply the verb ¢o surround or to beset. But what 
do they mean by besetting the hands and the feet? Besetting 
belongs no more to these parts of the human body than to 
the whole man. The absurdity of this argument being dis- 
covered, they have recourse to the most ridiculous old wives’ ~ 
fables, according to their usual way, saying, that the lion, 
when he meets any man in his road, makes a circle with his 
tail before rushing upon his prey: from which it is abund- 
antly evident that they are at a loss for arguments to support 
their view. 

Again, since David, in the preceding verse, has used the 
similitude of a lion, the repetition of it in this verse would 
be superfluous. I forbear insisting upon what some of our 
expositors have observed, namely, that this noun, when it 
has prefixed to it the letter 5, caph, which signifies as, the 
word denoting similitude, has commonly other points than 
those which are employed in this passage. My object, how- 
ever, is not here to labour to convince the Jews who in 
controversy are in the highest degree obstinate and opinion- 
ative. I only intend briefly to show how wickedly they 
endeavour to perplex Christians on account of the different 
reading which occurs in this place. When they object, 
that by the appointment of the law no man was fastened 
with nails to a cross, they betray in this their gross ignor- 


by the substitution of the letter *, yod, for the letter’, vau, which i so 
nearly resembles. Walford observes, ‘‘ that the present reading [‘ws, 
cadri] is quite satisfactory, if it be taken as a articiple plural in regim., 
and be translated, ‘ Wounders of my hands eid my feet.’” 


~ 


i ee 


PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 375 


ance of history, since it is certain that the Romans intro- 
duced many of their own customs and manners into the 
provinces which they had conquered. If they object that 
David was never nailed to a cross, the answer is easy, name- 
ly, that in bewailing his condition, he has made use of a 
similitude, declaring that he was not less afflicted by his 
enemies than the man who is suspended on a cross, having 
his hands and feet pierced through with nails. We will meet 
a little after with more of the same kind of metaphors. 


17. I will number all my bones ; they look and stare upon me. 

18. They part my garments among them, and cast the lot upon 
my vesture. 

19. Be not thou then, O Jehovah! far from me. O thou! who 
art my strength, make haste to help me. 

20. Deliver my soul from the sword ; my only one’ from the hand 
[or power] of the dog. 

21. Save me from the mouth of the lion, and hear me from the 
horns of the unicorns.? 


17. I will number. The Hebrew word F\PxyY, atsmoth, 
which signifies bones, is derived from another word, which 
signifies strength; and, therefore, this term is sometimes 
applied to friends, by whose defence we are strengthened, or 
to arguments and reasons which are, as it were, the sinews 
and the strength of the defence of a cause. Some, there- 
fore, put this meaning upon the passage,—I will profit nothing 
by reckoning up all my arguments in self-vindication; for 
my enemies are fully determined to destroy me by some 
means or other, whether fair or foul, without having any 
regard to the dictates of justice. Others explain it thus: 
Although I should gather together all the aids which might 
seem to be capable of affording me succour, they would avail 
me nothing. But the exposition which is more generally 
received seems to me to be also the more simple and natural, 
and, therefore, I embrace it the more readily. It is this—that 
David complains that his body was so lean and wasted, that 


1 Ascayoir, vie, qui est seule.”—Note, Fr. marg. “ Namely, my life, 
which is alone.” 
2“ Ft me respon, en me sauvant des cornes des licornes."—Fr. ‘ And 


_ answer me, by saving me from the horns of the unicorns,” 


376 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


the bones appeared protruding from all parts of it; for he 
adds immediately after, that his enemies took pleasure in 
seeing him in so pitiable a condition. Thus the two clauses 
of the verse are beautifully connected together. The cruelty 
of his enemies was so insatiable, that beholding a wretched 
man wasted with gricf, and as it were pining away, they 
took pleasure in feeding their eyes with so sad a spectacle. 
What follows in the next verse concerning his garments 
is metaphorical. It is as if he had said, that all his goods 
were become a prey to his enemies, even as conquerors are 
accustomed to plunder the vanquished, or to divide the spoil 
among themselves, by casting lots to determine the share 
which belongs to each. Comparing his ornaments, riches, 
and all that he possessed, to his garments, he complains that, 
after he had been despoiled of them, his enemies divided 
them among themselves, as so much booty, accompanied with 
mockery of him; and by this mockery the villany of their con- 
duct was aggravated, inasmuch as they triumphed over him, 
asif he had been a dead man. The Evangelists quote this 
place to the letter, as we say, and without figure ; and there 
is no absurdity in their doing so. To teach us the more 
certainly that in this psalm Christ is described to us by the 
Spirit of prophecy, the heavenly Father intended that in the 
person of his Son those things should be visibly accomplish- 
ed which were shadowed forth in David. Matthew, (chap. 
viii. 16, 17,) in narrating that the paralytic, the blind, and 
the lame, were healed of their diseases, says, that this was 
done “that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias 
the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities, and bear 
our sicknesses ;” although the prophet, in that place, sets 
before us the Son of God in the character of a spiritual phy- 
sician. We are extremely slow and backward to believe; 
and it is not wonderful, that, on account of our dulness of 
apprehension, a demonstration of the character of Christ, 
palpable to our senses, has been given us,’ which might have 
the effect of arousing the sluggishness of ow understandings. 


1 “T] nous a esté faite une demonstration si grossiere, qu’on la pouvoit 
taster au doigt.”—F'r. ‘‘' There has been given us a demonstration so 
palpable, that it might be touched with the finger.” 


| psa XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 377 
. 


eee ———————— 





19. Be not thou, then, far from me, O Jehovah! We must keep 
in mind all that David has hitherto related concerning himself. 
As his miseries had reached the utmost height, and as he saw 
not even a single ray of hope to encourage him to expect 
deliverance, it is a wonderful instance of the power of faith, 
that he not only endured his afflictions patiently, but that 
from the abyss of despair he arose to call upon God. Let us, 
therefore, particularly mark, that David did not pour out 
his lamentations thinking them to be in vain, and of no effect, 
as persons who are in perplexity often pour forth their 
groanings at random. The prayers which he adds sufficiently 
show that he hoped for such an issue as he desired. When 
he calls God his strength, by this epithet he gives a more 
evident proof of his faith. He does not pray in a doubting 
manner; but he promises himself the assistance which the 
eye of sense did not as yet perceive. By the sword, by the 
hand of the dog, by the mouth of the lion, and by the horns of 
the unicorns, he intimates that he was presently exposed to 
the danger of death, and that in many ways. Whence we 
gather, that although he utterly fainted in himself when thus 
surrounded by death, he yet continued strong in the Lord, 
and that the spirit of life had always been vigorous in his heart. 
Some take the words only soul, or only life, for dear and pre- 
cious ;‘ but this view does not appear to me to be appro- 
priate. He rather means, that, amidst so many deaths he 
found no help or succour in the whole world; as in Psalm 
xxxy. 17, the words, only soul,” are used in the same sense for 
a person who is alone and destitute ofall aid and succour. This 
will appear more clearly from Psalm xxv. 16, where David, by 
calling himself poor and alone, doubtless complains that he 
was completely deprived of friends, and forsaken of the whole 
world. When it is said in the end of the 21st verse, Answer me, 
or, Hear me from the horns of the unicorns, this Hebrew manner 
of speaking may seem strange and obscure to our ears, but 
the sense is not at all ambiguous. The cause is only put in- 
stead of the effect ; for our deliverance is the consequence or 


? That is, my life, which is dear and precious to me. 


; 2“ La vie esseulee.”"—J'r. ‘“ Life deserted or left alone.” 


378 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


effect of God’s hearing us. If it is asked how this ean be 
applied to Christ, whom the Father did not deliver from 
death? I answer, in one word, that he was more mightily 
delivered than if God had prevented him from falling a vie- 
tim to death, even as it is a much greater deliverance to rise 
again from the dead than to be healed of a grievous malady. 
Death, therefore, did not prevent Christ’s resurrection from 
at length bearing witness that he had been heard. 


22. Iwill declare thy name to my brethren: in the midst of the 
assembly will I praise thee. 

23. [ Saying,'] Ye who fear Jehovah, praise him : all ye the seed 
of Jacob, glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of — 
Israel. 

24, For he hath not despised nor disdained the poor ; nor hath he 
hidden his face from him; and when he cried unto him he 
heard him. 


22. I will declare thy name.? David, in promising that 
when he is delivered he will not be ungrateful, confirms what 
Ihave previously stated, that he had never been so cast down 
by temptation as not to take courage to resist it. How 
could he be putting himself in readiness, as he is doing here, 
to offer to God the sacrifice of thanksgiving, if he had not 
beforehand entertained the assured hope of deliverance? 
Should we even grant that this psalm was composed after 
David had actually obtained what he desired, there is no 
doubt that what he afterwards put into writing formed the 
meditations and reflections which had passed through his 
mind during the time of his heavy afflictions. It ought to— 
be particularly noticed, that it is no ordinary token of grati- 
tude which he promises, but such as God required for rare 
blessings; namely, that the faithful should come into his 
sanctuary, and there bear solemn testimony to the grace 
which they had received. The design of public and solemn 
thanksgiving is, that the faithful may employ themselves 

1 “ Disant.”—Fr. 

2 The second _ of the psalm here commences. There is a transition 


from language of the deepest anguish to that of exalted joy and gratitude. 
The suffering Messiah here contemplates the blessed ts of his sufferings. 





OP ES es 


PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 379 


in all variety of ways, in serving and honouring God, and 
that they may encourage one another to act in the same 
manner. We know that God’s wonderful power shone forth 
in the protection of David ; and that not only by one miracle, 
but by many. It is, therefore, not wonderful that he brings 
himself under obligation, by a solemn vow, to make open 
and public profession of his piety and faithfulness towards 
God. By his brethren he means the Israelites ; and he gives 
them this appellation, not only because he and they were both 
descended from the same parentage, but rather because the 
religion which they had in common, as a sacred bond, kept 
them united to one another by a spiritual relationship. The 
apostle, (Heb. ii. 12,) in applying this verse to Christ, argues 
from it, that he was a partaker of the same nature with us, 
and joined to us by a true fellowship of the flesh, seeing he 
acknowledges us as his brethren, and vouchsafes to give us a 
title so honourable. I have already repeatedly stated, (and it 
is also easy to prove it from the end of this psalm,) that under 
the figure of David, Christ has been here shadowed forth to 
us. The apostle, therefore, justly deduces from this, that under 
and by the name of brethren, the right of fraternal alliance 
with Christ has been confirmed to us. This, no doubt, to a 
certain extent, belongs to all mankind, but the true enjoyment 
thereof belongs properly to genuine believers alone. For 
this reason Christ himself, with his own mouth, limits this 
title to his disciples, saying, “ Go to my brethren, and say 
unto them, I ascend unto my Father and your Father, and 
to my God and your God,” (John xx. 17.) The ungodly, 
by means of their unbelief, break off and dissolve that rela- 
tionship of the flesh, by which he has allied himself to us, 
and thus render themselves utter strangers to him by their 
own fault. As David, while he comprehended under the 
word brethren all the offspring of Abraham, immediately 
after (verse 23) particularly addresses his discourse to the 
true worshippers of God; so Christ, while he has broken 
down “the middle wall of partition” between Jews and 
Gentiles, and published the blessings of adoption to all nations, 
and thereby exhibited himself to them as a brother, retains 
in the degree of brethren none but true believers. 


380 . _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


23. Ye who fear Jehovah. Were, again, the Psalmist ex- 
presses more distinctly the fruit of public and solemn thanks- 
giving, of which I have spoken before, declaring, that by 
engaging in this exercise, every man in his own place invites 
and stirs up the church by his example to praise God. He 
tells us, that the end for which he will praise the name of 
God in the public assembly is to encourage his brethren to 
do the same. But as hypocrites commonly thrust themselves 
into the church, and as on the barn-floor of the Lord the 
chaff is mingled with the wheat, he addresses himself express- 
ly to the godly, and those who fear God. Impure and wick- 


ed men may sing the praises of God with open mouth, but — 


assuredly, they do nothing else than pollute and profane his 
holy name. It were, indeed, an object much to be desired, 
that men of all conditions in the world would, with one accord, 
join in holy melody to the Lord. But as the chief and most 
essential part of this harmony proceeds from a sincere and 
pure affection of heart, none will ever, in a right manner, 
celebrate the glory of God, except the man who worships him 
under the influence of holy fear. David names, a little after, 
the seed of Jacob and Israel, having a reference to the common 
calling of the people; and certainly, he put no obstacle in the 
way to hinder even all the children of Abraham from praising 
God with one accord. But ashe saw that many of the 
Israelites were bastard and degenerate, he distinguishes true 
and sincere Israelites from them ; and at the same time shows 
that God’s name is not duly celebrated, unless where there is 
true piety and the inward fear of God. Accordingly, in his 
exhortation he again joins together the praises of God and 
reverence towards him. Fear him, ye seed of Israel, says he ; for 
all the fair faces which hypocrites put on in this matter are 
nothing but pure mockery. The fear which he recommends 
is not, however, such as would frighten the faithful from 
approaching God, but that which will bring them truly 
humbled into his sanctuary, as has been stated in the fifth 
psalm. Some may be surprised to find David addressing an 
exhortation to praise God,’ to those whom he had previously 


1 It is ** praise God,” both in the Latin and French versions; but the 
train of thought seems to require that it should be “ fear God,” 


EO EEE ra, 


PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 381 


commended for doing so. But this is easily explained, for 
even the holiest men in the world are never so thoroughly 
imbued with the fear of God as not to have need of being 
continually incited to its exercise. Accordingly, the exhor- 
tation is not at all superfluous when, speaking of those who 
fear God, he exhorts them to stand in awe of him, and to 
prostrate themselves humbly before him. 


—E —— ll ———————" = — 


24. For he hath not despised. To rejoice in one another's 
good, and to give thanks in common for each other’s welfare, 
is a branch of that communion which ought to exist among 
the people of God, as Paul also teaches, (2 Cor. i. 11,) “That 
for the gift bestowed upon us by the means of many persons, 
thanks may be given by many on our behalf.” But this 
statement of David serves another important purpose—it 
serves to encourage every man to hope that God will exer- 
cise the same mercy towards himself. By the way, we are 
taught from these words that the people of God ought to 
endure their afflictions patiently, however long it shall please 
the Lord to keep them in a state of distress, that he may at 
length succour them, and lend them his aid when they are 
so severely tried. 


25, My praise shall proceed from thee’ in the great assembly; I 

will pay my vows in the presence of them that fear him. 

26. The poor shall eat and be satisfied ; they shall praise Jehovah 

| that seek him: your heart shall live for ever. 

27. All the ends of the earth shall remember, and turn to Je- 

hovah ; and all the tribes of the Gentiles shall prostrate 

themselves before his face. 

| 28. For the kingdom is Jehovah’s, that he may be the governor 
among the nations. 

29. All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and worship ; all those 
who are going down to the dust shall bow before him ; and 
he who quickeneth not his own soul, [or he who is unable to 
keep himself alive. | 

25. My praise shall proceed from thee. I do not reject the 

other translation ; but in my opinion, the Hebrew manner of 


1“ A te laus mea.”—Lat. ‘Ma a proviendra de toy.”—Fr. 
_ * Ou, ma louange sera de toy.” —Fr. marg. “ Or, my praiseshall be of thee.” 





382 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


expression here requires this sense—that David will take 
the matter of his song of praise from God. Accordingly, I 
supply the verb shall proceed, or shall flow,—My praise shall 
proceed or flow from thee; and he made this statement in 
order to testify that he owed his deliverance entirely to 
God. We know that there are many who, under pre- 
tence of praising God, trumpet forth their own praises, and 
those of their friends, and leaving God in the back-ground, 
take occasion from one thing or another to celebrate their 
own triumphs. The Psalmist repeats what he had touched 
upon a little before, that he will show the tokens of his 
gratitude in a public manner, in order thereby to edify 
others. He adds, that among these tokens will be the solemn 
exercise of godliness enjoined by the law: I will pay my 
vows in the presence of them that fear him. In important 
affairs, and when threatened with imminent danger, it was 
a common practice among God’s ancient people to vow a 
peace-offering, and after having obtained the object of their 
desire, they performed their vow. As David, therefore, 
belonged to the number of the saints, he conformed him- 
self, as it became him, to that common and understood regu- 
lation of the Church. The vows which he promises to pay 
are those which he intimates he had made in his extreme 
distress, and he prepares himself to perform them with a 
noble and cheerful heart, yea, with a heart full of confidence. 
Now, although it behoved him to perform this solemn act of 
religion in the presence of the whole assembly without dis- 
tinction, he again confesses it to be his desire, that all who 
should be present there to witness it should be the true 
worshippers of God. Thus, although it may not be in our 
power to cleanse the Church of God, it is our duty to 
desire her purity. The Papists, by wresting this passage to 
support their false and deceitful vows, show themselves so 
stupid and so ridiculous, that it is unnecessary to spend 
much time in refuting them. What resemblance is there 
between these childish fooleries, with which according to 
their own imagination they attempt to appease God, and 
this holy testimony of gratitude, which not only a true sense 
of religion and the fear of God suggested to the fathers, but 


mr 





| PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 883 


which God himself has commanded and ratified in his law ? 

Yea, how can they have the face to equal their foolish and 

infamous superstitions to the most precious of all sacrifices— 

the sacrifice of thanksgiving? even as the Scriptures testify, 

_ that the principal part of the service of God consists in this, 

that true believers publicly and solemnly acknowledge that 
he is the author of all good things. 


26. The poor shall eat. The Psalmist has a reference to 
the custom which was at that time prevalent among the 
Jews, of feasting on their sacrifices, as is very well known. 
He here promises this feast, in order to exercise and prove 

his charity. And surely that is a pleasant and an accept- 
able oblation to God to which compassion and mercy are 
joined. Without these, the ceremonies by which men pro- 
fess to worship God, with all their pomp and magnificence, 
vanish into smoke. David does not, however, simply promise 
to bestow upon the poor and the hungry something for the 
mere nourishment of the body. He declares that they shall 
be partakers of this feast for another purpose, namely, that 
matter of comfort being ministered to them, joy might be 
restored to their hearts and flourish afresh. For they saw 
> in that feast, as in a mirror, the goodness of God set forth to 
all who are in affliction, which might assuage with wonder- 
_ ful consolation the grief arising from all their calamities. The 
_ Psalmist therefore adds, They shall praise Jehovah that seek 
him, The abundant repast of which they had partaken ought, 
. no doubt, to have incited them to give thanks to God; but 
what is particularly meant is, praising God for that deliver- 
ance in grateful commemoration of which the sacrifice was 
offered. This appears still more clearly from the last clause 
of the verse: Your heart shall live for ever. One meal could 
not have sufficed to make their hearts live for ever. It was 
rather the hope which they entertained of having ready suc- 
cour from God which did this; for all the faithful justly 
reckoned the deliverance of this one man asa deliverance 
_ wrought for themselves in particular. Whence it follows, 
_ that, in the peace-offerings, the praises of God were so cele- 
brated, as that genuine worshippers also exercised their hope 


laid a a 


384 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. — 


in them. Farther, as hypocrites content themselves with 
merely going through the bare and lifeless ceremony, the 
Psalmist restricts the right performance of this exercise to 
true and holy Israelites: They shall praise Jehovah that seek 
him; and to seek God is the certain mark of genuine godli- 
ness. Now, if the fathers under the law had their spiritual 
life renewed and invigorated by their holy feasts, this virtue 
will show itself much more abundantly at this day in the holy 


supper of Christ, provided those who come to partake of it 


seek the Lord truly, and with their whole heart. 


27. All the ends of the earth shall remember. This passage, 





by 


| 


beyond all doubt, shows that David stops not at his own — 


person, but that under himself, as a type, he describes the 
promised Messiah. For even then, it ought to have been a well- 
known point, that he had been created king by God, that 
the people might be united together and enjoy a happy life 
under one head ; and this was at length completely fulfilled in 
Christ. David’s name, I admit, was great and renowned among 
the neighbouring nations ; but what was the territory which 
they occupied in comparison of the whole world? Besides, 
the foreign nations whom he had subdued had never been con- 
verted by him to the true worship of God. That forced and 
slavish submission, therefore, which the heathen nations had 
been brought by conquest to yield to an earthly king, was 
very different from the willing obedience of true godliness by 
which they would be recovered from their miserable wander- 
ings, and gathered to God. Nor does the Psalmist mean 
an ordinary change, when he says, that the nations shall 
return to God, after having become well acquainted with his 
grace. Moreover, by uniting them to the fellowship of the 
holy feast, he manifestly grafts them into the body of the 
Church. Some explain these words, They shall remember, 
as meaning, that upon the restoration of the light of faith to 
the Gentiles, they should then come to remember God, whom 
they had for a time forgotten ;' but this seems to me too 

1 As it is not said what they should remember, some commentators 
explain it thus : That they shall remember, with penne their sins ; and, 


particularly, their idolatry. Others, that they shall remember the good- 
ness and mercy of God, through Christ, to a lost world. And others, that 





—. eS 


PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 385 


refined, and far from the meaning. I allow that the conver- 
sion or return of which mention is here made, implies that 
they had previously been alienated from God by wicked 
defection; but this remembrance simply means that the 
Gentiles, awakened by the signal miracles wrought by God, 
would again come to embrace the true religion, from which 
they had fallen away. Farther, it is to be observed, that 
the true worship of God proceeds from the knowledge of him ; 
for the language of the Psalmist implies, that those shall 
come to prostrate themselves before God, in humble adora- 
tion, who shall have profited so far in meditation upon his 
works, as that they shall have no more desire proudly and 
contemptuously to break forth against him. 

This sense is more fully confirmed by the reason! which is 
added in the following verse, (28,) The kingdom is Jehovah's, 
that he may rule over the nations. Some explain these words 
thus :—It is not to be wondered at if the Gentiles should be 
constrained to yield honour to God, by whom they were 
created, and by whose hand they are governed, although he 
has not entered into a covenant of life with them. But I 
reject this as a meagre and unsatisfactory interpretation. 
This passage, I have no doubt, agrees with many other pro- 
phecies which represent the throne of God as erected, on 
which Christ may sit to superintend and govern the world. 
Although, therefore, the providence of God is extended to 
the whole world, without any part of it being excepted, yet 
let us remember that he then, in very deed, exercises his 
authority, when having dispelled the darkness of ignorance, 
and diffused the light of his word, he appears conspicuous on 
his throne. We have such a description of his kingdom by 
the prophet Isaiah, (chap. ii. 4,) “ He shall judge among the 
nations, and shall rebuke many people.” Moreover, as God 
had not subdued the world to himself, prior to the time when 
those who before were unconquerable were subdued to a 


willing obedience by the preaching of the gospel, we may 


shall remember God whom they had forgotten, worshipping, instead 
of him, wood and stones. This last seems to be the view to which Calvin 
refers. 


. 1} The reason why the Gentiles shall remember, and turn to the Lord. 
VOL. I. 2B 


386 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


conclude that this conversion was effected only under the 
management and government of Christ. If it is objected, 
that the whole world has never yet been converted, the solu- 
tion is easy. A comparison is here made between that 
remarkable period in which God suddenly became known 
every where, by the preaching of the gospel, and the ancient 
dispensation, when he kept the knowledge of himself shut up 
within the limits of Judea. Christ, we know, penetrated 
with amazing speed, from the east to the west, like the light- 
ning’s flash, in order to bring into the Church the Gentiles 
from all parts of the world, 


29. All the fat ones of the earth shalleat and worship. Lest 
it should be thought inconsistent that now the fat ones of the 
earth are admitted as guests to this banquet, which Dayid 
seemed immediately before to have appointed only for the poor, 
let us remember that the first place was given to the poor, be- 
cause to them principally comfort was set forth in the example 
of David. Yet it was necessary, in the second place, that the 
rich and the prosperous should be called to the feast, that 
they might not think themselves excluded from the partici- 
pation of the same grace. They are not, it is true, urged, by 
the pressure of present calamities, to seek comfort for grief, 
but they have need of a remedy to prevent them from intoxi- 
cating themselves with their delights, and to excite them 
rather to lay up their joy in heaven. Again, since they also 
are subject to a variety of troubles, their abundance will be 
a curse to them, provided it keep their minds down to the 
earth. The amount of the Psalmist’s statement is, that this 
sacrifice will be common as well to those who are sound, 
lusty, and in opulent circumstances, as to those who are | 
poor, and half dead from the want of food ; that the former, 
laying aside their pride, may humble themselves before God, 
and that the latter, though they may be brought low, may 
lift up their minds by spiritual joy to God, the author of all 
good things, as James (chap. i. 9, 10) admonishes both classes, 
in these words, “ Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that 
he is exalted; but the rich in that he is made low.” Now, 
if God, under the law, joined the full with the hungry, the 








PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 387 


noble with the mean, the happy with the wretched, much 
more ought this to take place at the present day under the 
gospel. When, therefore, the rich hear that food is offered 
to them elsewhere than in earthly abundance, let them learn 
to use the outward good things which God has bestowed 


_ upon them for the purposes of the present life, with such 


sobriety as that they may not be disgusted with spiritual 
food, or turn away from it, through loathing. So long as 
they wallow in their own filth, they will never long for this 
food with a holy desire; and although they may have it at 
hand, they will never take pleasure in tasting it... Farther, 
as those who are fat must become lean, in order that they 
may present themselves to God to be fed and nourished, so 
David endeavours to inspire the famished with assured 
and undaunted confidence, lest their poverty should hinder 
them from coming to the banquet. Yea, he invites even the 
dead to come to the feast, in order that the most despised, 
and those who, in the estimation of the world, are almost like 
putrefying carcases, may be encouraged and emboldened to 
present themselves at the holy table of the Lord. The 
change which the Psalmist makes in the number, from the 
plural to the singular, in the end of the verse, somewhat 
obscures the sense; but the meaning undoubtedly is, that 
those who seem already to be reduced to dust, and whose 
restoration from death to life is, as it were, despaired of, shall 
be partakers of the same grace with him. 


30. Their seed shall serve him, and shall be registered to the Lord* 
. Sor @ generation. 
31. They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness to a people 
that shall be born, because he hath done it. 


30. Their seed shall serve him. The more to exalt the 
greatness of the benefit, he declares that it will be of such a 
character that posterity will never forget it. And he shows 
how it will come to be perpetuated, namely, because the con- 
version of the world, of which he has spoken, will not be for 


1 Et encores qu’'ils les ayent 4 main, ils ne pourront prendre plaisir a 
les savourer.”—Fr. 


_. #* The Hebrew word here is snx, Adonai. 


388 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


a short time only but will continue from age to age. Whence 
we again conclude, that what is here celebrated is not such 
a manifestation of the glory of God to the Gentile nations 
as proceeds from a transitory and fading rumour, but such as 
will enlighten the world with its beams, even to the end of 
time. Accordingly, the perpetuity of the Church is here 
abundantly proved, and in very clear terms: not that it 
always flourishes or continues in the same uniform course 
through successive ages, but because God, unwilling that his 
name should be extinguished in the world, will always raise 
up some sincerely to devote themselves to his service. We 
ought to remember that this seed, in which the seryice of 
God was to be preserved, is the fruit of the incorruptible 
seed ; for God begets and multiplies his Church only by 
means of his word. 

The expression, Zo be'registered to the Lord for a generation, 
is explained in two ways. Some take the Hebrew word 
“V7, dor, for a succession of ages, and explain the clause thus : 
They shall be registered to the Lord age after age. Others 
take it for generation, in the sense in which the word natio 
[nation] is used in the Latin tongue. As both these senses 
suit very well, and come almost to the same thing, I leaye my 
readers at liberty to choose between them. I am, however, I 
admit, rather inclined to the opinion, that by this word is 
designated God’s chosen people and peculiar nation, which 
may be accounted the heritage of God. Farther, as the 
name Jehovah, which is expressive of God’s essence, is not 
here used as it is a little before, but the word Adonai, I do 
not disapprove of the opinion of those who think that Christ 
is here expressly invested with authority over' the Church, 
that he may register all who shall give in their names as on 
the side of God his Father. And, indeed, as our heayenly 
Father has committed all his chosen ones to the protection 
and guardianship of his own Son, he acknowledges as his 
people none but those who belong to the flock of Christ. 


31. They shall come, and shall declare. The Psalmist here 


' The Hebrew word Adonai is derived from a verb which signifies to 
direct, rule, judge; and it therefore signifies director, ruler, judge. 





PSALM XXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 389 


confirms what I have previously stated, that since the fathers 
will transmit the knowledge of this benefit to their children, 
as it were from hand to hand, the name of God will be 
always renowned. From this we may also deduce the addi- 
tional truth, that it is by the preaching of the grace of God 
alone that the Church is kept from perishing, At the same 
time, let it be observed, that care and diligence in propagat- 
ing divine truth are here enjoined upon us, that it may con- 
tinue after we are removed from this world. As the Holy 
Spirit prescribes it as a duty incumbent on all the faithful 
to be diligent in instructing their children, that there may 
be always one generation after another to serve God, the 
sluggishness of those who have no scruple of conscience 
in burying the remembrance of God in eternal silence, a 
sin with which those are virtually chargeable who neglect 
to speak of him to their children, and who thus do no- 
thing to prevent his name from utterly perishing, is con- 
demned as involving the greatest turpitude. The term 
righteousness, in this place, refers to the faithfulness which 
God observes in preserving his people, of which we have a 
memorable example in the deliverance of David. In defend- 
ing his servant from the violence and outrage of the wicked, 
he proved himself to be righteous. Hence we may learn 
how dear our welfare is to God, seeing he combines it with 
‘the celebration of the praise of his own righteousness. If 
then the righteousness of God is illustriously manifested in 
this, that he does not disappoint us of our hope, nor abandon 
us in dangers, but defends and keeps us in perfect safety, 
there is no more reason to fear that he will forsake us in the 
time of our need, than there is reason to fear that he can 
forget himself. We must, however, remember that it is not 
for any particular succour afforded to one individual, but it is 
for the redemption of the human race, that the celebration of 
the praise of God is required from us in this passage. In 
short, the Holy Spirit, by the mouth of David, recommends 
to us the publication of Christ’s resurrection. In the end 
of this psalm some commentators resolve the particle ‘5, 
hi, because, into the pronoun Wx, asher, which, as if it 
had been said, The righteousness which he hath done. But 


390 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIII. 


the sentence will be fuller if we read, because, and explain 
the passage thus: They shall come, and shall declare his 
righteousness, because God shall have given proof, or demon- 
stration, of his righteousness—shall have afforded evidence 
by the effect, or the deed itself, that he is the faithful guard- 
ian of his own people. 


PSALM XXIII. 


This psalm is neither intermingled with prayers, nor does it complain of 
miseries for the purpose of obtaining relief; but it contains simply a 
thanksgiving, from which it appears that it was composed when Dayid 
had obtained peaceable possession of the kingdom, and lived in pro- 

' sperity, and in the enjoyment of all he could desire. That he might 
not, therefore, in the time of his great prosperity, be like worldly 
men, who, when they seem to themselves to be fortunate,' bury God 
in forgetfulness, and luxuriously plunge themselves into their pleasures, 
he delights himself in God, the author of all the blessings which he en- 
joyed. And he not only acknowledges that the state of tranquillity in 
which he now lives, and his exemption from all inconveniences and 
troubles, is owing to the goodness of God; but he also trusts that 
through his providence he will continue happy even to the close of his 
life, and for this end that he may employ himself in his pure worship. 


A Psalm of David. 


1. Jehovah is my shepherd, I shall not want.* 

2. He maketh me to lie down in pastures of grass ; he leadeth 
me to gently flowing waters.’ 

3. He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me by the paths of right- 
eousness for his name’s sake, 

4. Though I should walk in the valley of the shadow of death, 
Iwill fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy staff and 
thy crook comfort me, 


1. Jehovah is my shepherd, Although God, by his benefits, 


1 “ Lesquels ayans le vent & gré, comme on dit."—Fr. ‘* Who having 
the wind to their mind, as we say.” 

2 “ Le Seigneur est mon pasteur, parquoy je n’auray faute de rien.” —Fr, 
“The Lord is my shepherd, therefore I shall not want any thing.” 

3“ T] me mene aux eaux quoyes,”"—Fr. ‘ He leadeth me to the quiet 


[or peaceful] waters.” 


PSALM XXIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 891 


gently allures us to himself, as it were by a taste of his fatherly 
sweetness, yet there is nothing into which we more easily fall 
than into a forgetfulness of him, when we are in the enjoyment 
of peace and comfort. Yea, prosperity not only so intoxicates 
many, as to carry them beyond all bounds in their mirth, but 
it also engenders insolence, which makes them proudly rise 
up and break forth against God. Accordingly, there is 
scarcely a hundredth part of those who enjoy in abundance 
the good things of God, who keep themselves in his fear, 
and live in the exercise of humility and temperance, which 
would be so becoming.’ For this reason, we ought the more 
carefully to mark the example which is here set before us by 
David, who, elevated to the dignity of sovereign power, sur- 
rounded with the splendour of riches and honours, possessed of 
the greatest abundance of temporal good things, and in the 
midst of princely pleasures, not only testifies that he is mind- 
ful of God, but calling to remembrance the benefits which 
God had conferred upon him,? makes them ladders by which 
he may ascend nearer to Him. By this means he not only 
bridles the wantonness of his flesh, but also excites himself 
with the greater earnestness to gratitude, and the other 
exercises of godliness, as appears from the concluding sentence 
of the psalm, where he says, “I shall dwell in the house of 
Jehovah for a length of days.” In like manner, in the xviiith 
: which was composed at a period of his life when he 

was applauded on every side, by calling himself the servant 
of God, he showed the humility and simplicity of heart to 
which he had attained, and, at the same time, openly testified 
his gratitude, by applying himself to the celebration of the 
praises of God. 

Under the similitude of a shepherd, he commends the care 
} which God, in his providence, had exercised towards him. 
His language implies that God had no less care of him than 
a shepherd has of the sheep who are committed to his charge. 
God, in the Scripture, frequently takes to himself the name, 
and puts on the character of a shepherd, and this is no mean 


1 “ Qui se contiene en Ja crainte de Dieu se selon la modestie et tem- 
ce qui seroit requise.”— 
2 « Mais rememorant les benefices qu'il regoit de luy.”—Fr. 


392 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIII, 


token of his tender love towards us. As this is a lowly and 
homely manner of speaking, He who does not disdain to stoop 
so low for our sake, must bear a singularly strong affection 
towards us. It is therefore wonderful, that when he invites 
us to himself with such gentleness and familiarity, we are 
not drawn or allured to him, that we may rest in safety and 
peace under his guardianship. But it should be observed, 
that God is a shepherd only to those who, touched with a 
sense of their own weakness and poverty, feel their need of 
his protection, and who willingly abide in his sheepfold, and 
surrender themselves to be governed by him. David, who 
excelled both in power and riches, nevertheless frankly con- 
fessed himself to be a poor sheep, that he might have God 
for his shepherd. Who is there, then, amongst us, who would 
exempt himself from this necessity, seeing our own weakness 
sufficiently shows that we are more than miserable if we do 
not live under the protection of this shepherd ? We ought 
to bear in mind, that our happiness consists in this, that his 
hand is stretched forth to govern us, that we live under his 
shadow, and that his providence keeps watch and ward over 
our welfare. Although, therefore, we have abundance of all 
temporal good things, yet let us be assured that we cannot 
be truly happy unless God vouchsafe to reckon us among 
the number of his flock. Besides, we then only attribute to 
God the office of a Shepherd with due and rightful honour, 
when we are persuaded that his providence alone is sufficient 
to supply all our necessities! As those who enjoy the 
greatest abundance of outward good things are empty and 
famished if God is not their shepherd; so it is beyond all 
doubt that those whom he has taken under his charge shall not 
want a full abundance of all good things. David, therefore, 
declares that he is not afraid of wanting any thing, because 
God is his Shepherd. 


2. He maketh me to lie down in pastures of grass. With 
respect to the words, it is in the Hebrew, pastures, or fields of 
grass, for grassy and rich grounds. Some, instead of trans- 


1 “ Que sa seule providence est suffisante pour nous administrer toutes 
nos necessitez.”—Fr, 


\ 


\ 


Pat = 


PSALM XXIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 393 


lating the word FN), neoth, which we have rendered pas- 
tures, render it shepherds’ cots or lodges. If this translation 
is considered preferable, the meaning of the Psalmist will be, 
that sheep-cots were prepared in rich pasture grounds, under 
which he might be protected from the heat of the sun. If 
even in cold countries the immoderate heat which sometimes 
oceurs is troublesome to a flock of sheep, how could they 
bear the heat of the summer in Judea, a warm region, with- 
out sheepfolds? The verb 12, rabats, to lie down, or repose, 
seems to have a reference to the same thing. David has 
used the phrase, the quiet waters, to express gently flowing 
waters; for rapid streams are inconvenient for sheep to 
drink in, and are also for the most part hurtful. In this 
verse, and in the verses following, he explains the last clause 
of the first verse, Z shall not want. He relates how abun- 
dantly God had provided for all his necessities, and he does 
this without departing from the comparison which he employ- 
ed at the commencement. The amount of what is stated is, 
that the heavenly Shepherd had omitted nothing which 
might contribute to make him live happily under his care. 
He, therefore, compares the great abundance of all things 
requisite for the purposes of the present life which he enjoy- 
ed, to meadows richly covered with grass, and to gently flow- 
ing streams of water ; or he compares the benefit or advantage 
of such things to sheep-cots; for it would not have been 
enough to have been fed and satisfied in rich pasture, had 
there not also been provided waters to drink, and the sha- 
dow of the sheep-cot to cool and refresh him. 


3. He restoreth my soul. As it is the duty of a good shep- 
herd to cherish his sheep, and when they are diseased or 
weak to nurse and support them, David declares that this 
was the manner in which he was treated by God. The re-. 
storing of the soul, as we have translated it, or the conversion 
of the soul, as it is, literally rendered, is of the same import 
as to make anew, or to recover, as has been already stated 
in the xixth psalm, at the seventh verse. By the paths of 
righteousness, he means easy and plain paths.’ As he still 


- } Walford adopts and defends this view. His reading is, ‘‘ He leadeth 


= 


394 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXII. 


continues his metaphor, it would be out of place to understand 
this as referring to the direction of the Holy Spirit. He has 
stated a little before that God liberally supplies him with all 
that is requisite for the maintenance of the present life, and 
now he adds, that he is defended by him from all trouble. 
The amount of what is said is, that God is in no respect 
wanting to his people, seeing he sustains them by his power, 
invigorates and quickens them, and averts from them what- 
ever is hurtful, that they may walk at ease in plain and © 
straight paths. That, however, he may not ascribe any 
thing to his own worth or merit, David represents the good- 
ness of God as the cause of so great liberality, declaring that 
God bestows all these things upon him for his own names — 
sake. And certainly his choosing us to be his sheep, and his 
performing towards us all the offices of a shepherd, is a bless- 
ing which proceeds entirely from his free and sovereign 
goodness, as we shall see in the sixty-fifth psalm. 


4. Though I should walk. True believers, although they 
dwell safely under the protection of God, are, notwithstand- 
ing, exposed to many dangers, or rather they are liable to all= 
the afflictions which befall mankind in common, that they may _ 
the better feel how much they need the protection of God. — 
David, therefore, here expressly declares, that if any adversity 
should befall him, he would lean upon the providence of God. 
Thus he does not promise himself continual pleasures; but he 
fortifies himself by the help of God courageously to endure 
the various calamities with which he might be visited. Pur- — 
suing his metaphor, he compares the care which God takes — 
in governing true believers to a shepherd’s staff anderook, — 
declaring that he is satisfied with this as all-sufficient for the _ 
protection of his life. As a sheep, when it wanders up and — 









me in straight paths.” ‘‘ This version,” says he, ‘‘ may per prove not 
altogether agreeable to the feelings of the reader, in we 2 of his 
being accustomed to a different expression in the English Bible. But the 
consistency of the imagery requires the alteration ; as otherwise, we have 
an incongruous mixture of physical and moral figures. A careful 
herd | his sheep to verdant pastures, conducts them near 
waters, affords them the means of refreshment when wearied, and guides 
them away from rugged and tortuous paths to such as are direct and easy.” 


, 


PSALM XXIII, THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 395 


down through a dark valley, is preserved safe from the 
attacks of wild beasts and from harm in other ways, by the 
presence of the shepherd alone, so David now declares that 
as often as he shall be exposed to any danger, he will have 
sufficient defence and —— in being under the pastoral 
care of God. 

We thus see how, in his prosperity, he never forgot that 
he was a man, but even then seasonably meditated on the 
adversities which afterwards might come upon him. And 
certainly, the reason why we are so terrified, when it pleases 
God to exercise us with the cross, is, because every man, that 
he may sleep soundly and undisturbed, wraps himself up in 
carnal security. But there is a great difference between this 
sleep of stupidity and the repose which faith produces. Since 
God tries faith by adversity, it follows that no one truly 
confides in God, but he who is armed with invincible con- 
stancy for resisting all the fears with which he may be 
assailed.' Yet David did not mean to say that he was devoid 
of all fear, but only that he would surmount it so as to go 
without fear wherever his shepherd should lead him. This 
appears more clearly from the context. He says, in the first 
place, J will fear no evil ; but immediately adding the reason of 
this, he openly acknowledges that he seeks a remedy against 
his fear in contemplating, and having his eyes fixed on, the 
staff of his shepherd: For thy staff and thy crook comfort me. 
What need would he have had of that consolation, if he had 
not been disquieted and agitated with fear? It ought, there- 
fore, to be kept in mind, that when David reflected on the 
adversities which might befall him, he became victorious over 
fear and temptations, in no other way than by casting him- 
self on the protection of God. This he had also stated ~ 
before, although a little more obscurely, in these words, For 
thou art with me. This implies that he had been afflicted with 
fear. Had not this been the case, for what purpose could he 
desire the presence of God? pawn it is not against the 


2 “ Celuy qui est armé d’une constance invincible pour resister ) toutes 
les frayeurs | ui peuvent survenir.”—Fr, 
2 “ Car s'il n’y eust 1 any eu de crainte, & quel propos desireroit il la 
a presence de Dieu ?” 


396 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIIT. 


- 


- common and ordinary calamities of life only that he opposes 
the protection of God, but against those which distract and 
confound the minds of men with the darkness of death. For 
the Jewish grammarians think that maby, tsalmaveth, which 
we have translated the shadow of death, is a compound word, 
as if one should say deadly shade.' David here makes an 
allusion to the dark recesses or dens of wild beasts, to which 
when an individual approaches he is suddenly seized at his — 
first entrance with an apprehension and fear of death. Now, _ 
since God, in the person of his only begotten Son, has exhi- 
bited himself to us as our shepherd, much more clearly than 
he did in old time to,the fathers who lived under the Law, 
we do not render sufficient honour to his protecting care, 
if we do not lift our eyes to behold it, and keeping them fixed 
upon it, tread all fears and terrors under our feet.” 


5. Thou wilt prepare a table before me in the presence of my 
persecutors : thou wilt anoint my head with oil; my cup 
overflows. 

6. Surely goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of 
my life ; and I shall dwell in the house of Jehovah for a 
length of days. 


5. Thou wilt prepare. These words, which are put in the 
-4 future tense, here denote a continued act. David, therefore, 
now repeats, without a figure, what he has hitherto declared, 
concerning the beneficence of God, under the similitude of a 
shepherd. He tells us that by his liberality he is supplied 
with all that is necessary for the maintenance of this life. 
When he says, Zhou preparest a table before me, he means 
that God furnished him with sustenance without trouble or 
difficulty on his part, just as if a father should stretch forth 
his hand to give food to his child. He enhances this benefit 
from the additional consideration, that although many mali- — 


1 “ The original, mz5s xa, is very emphatic, ‘ In or through the valley 
of death-shade.’ This expression seems to denote imminent danger, 
(Jer. ii. 6,) sore affliction, (Psal. xliv. 19,) fear and terror, (Psal. evii. 
10, 14; Job xxiv. 17,) and dreadful darkness, (Job x. 21, 22.”)—Morison's _ 
Commentary on the Psalms. 

2 « Si non qu’eslevans la nos yeux et les y ayans fichez, nous foulliong 
aux pieds craintes et espouantemens.”—/T, 





—— 


—_——— 





PSALM XXIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 397 


cious persons enyy his happiness, and desire his ruin, yea, 
endeavour to defraud him of the blessing of God; yet God 
does not desist from showing himself liberal towards him, 
and from doing him good. What he subjoins concerning oil, 
has a reference to a custom which then prevailed. We know 
that in old time, ointments were used at the more magnifi- 


cent feasts, and no man thought he had honourably received 


his guests if he had not perfumed them therewith. Now, 


+ this exuberant store of o/, and also this overflowing cup, 


ought to be explained as denoting the abundance which 
goes beyond the mere supply of the common necessaries of 
life; for it is spoken in commendation of the royal wealth 
with which, as the sacred historian records, David had been 
amply furnished. All men, it is true, are not treated with 
the same liberality with which David was treated; but there 
is not an individual who is not under obligation to God by 
the benefits which God has conferred upon him, so that we 
are constrained to acknowledge that he is a kind and liberal 
Father to all his people. In the meantime, let each of us 
stir up himself to gratitude to God for his benefits, and the 
more abundantly these have been bestowed upon us, our 
gratitude ought to be the greater. If he is ungrateful who, 
haying only a coarse loaf, does not acknowledge in that the 
fatherly providence of God, how much less can the stupidity 
of those be tolerated, who glut themselves with the great 
abundance of the good things of God which they possess, 
without having any sense or taste of his goodness towards 
them? David, therefore, by his own example, admonishes 
the rich of their duty, that they may be the more ardent in 
the expression of their gratitude to God, the more delicately 
he feeds them. Farther, let us remember, that those who 
have greater abundance than others are bound to observe 
moderation not less than if they had only as much of the 
good things of this life as would serve for their limited and 
temperate enjoyment. We are too much inclined by nature 
to excess ; and, therefore, when God is, in respect of worldly 
things, bountiful to his people, it is not to stir up and nourish 
in them this disease. All men ought to attend to the rule of 


_ Paul, which is laid down in Philip. iv. 12, that they “ may 


* 


398 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIII. 


know both how to be abased, and how to ahound.” That want 
may not sink us into despondency, we need to be sustained 
by patient endurance; and, on the other hand, that too 
great abundance may not elate us above measure, we need 
to be restrained by the bridle of temperance. Accordingly, 
the Lord, when he enriches his own people, restrains, at the 
same time, the licentious desires of the flesh by the spirit of 
continence, so that, of their own accord, they prescribe to 
themselves rules of temperance. Not that it is unlawful for 
rich men to enjoy more freely the abundance which they 
possess than if God had given them a smaller portion; but 
all men ought to beware, (and much more kings,) lest they 
should be dissolved in voluptuous pleasures. David, no 
doubt, as was perfectly lawful, allowed himself larger scope 
than if he had been only one of the common people, or than if 
he had still dwelt in his father’s cottage, but he so regulated 
himself in the midst of his delicacies, as not at all to take plea- 
sure in stuffing and fattening the body. He knew well how 
to distinguish between the table which God had prepared for 
him and a trough for swine. It is also worthy of particular 
notice, that although David lived upon his own lands, the 
tribute money and other revenues of the kingdom, he gave 
thanks to God just as if God had daily given him his food 
with his own hand. From this we conclude that he was not 
blinded with his riches, but always looked upon God as his 
householder, who brought forth meat and drink from his own 
store, and distributed it to him at the proper season. 


6. Surely goodness and mercy. Having recounted the bless- 
ings which God had bestowed upon him, he now expresses 
—phis undoubted persuasion of the continuance of them to the 
end of his life. But whence proceeded this confidence, by 
which he assures himself that the beneficence and mercy of 
God will accompany him for ever, if it did not arise from the 
promise by which God is accustomed to season the blessings 
which he bestows upon true believers, that they may not 
inconsiderately devour them without haying any taste or 
relish for them ? When he said to himself before, that even 
amidst the darkness of death he would keep his eyes fixed 





PSALM XXIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 399 


in beholding the providence of God, he sufficiently testified 
that he did not depend upon outward things, nor measured 
the grace of God according to the judgment of the flesh, 
but that even when assistance from every earthly quarter 


failed him, his faith continued shut up in the word of God. 


_—_— 


Although, therefore, experience led him to hope well, yet it 
was principally on the promise by which God confirms his 
people with respect to the future that he depended. If it is 
objected that it is presumption for a man to promise himself 


_ a continued course of prosperity in this uncertain and chang- 


ing world, I answer, that David did not speak in this man- 
ner with the view of imposing on God a law; but he hoped 
for such exercise of God’s beneficence towards him as the 
condition of this world permits, with which he would be 
contented. He does not say, My cup shall be always full, or, 
My head shall be always perfumed with oil; but in general 


he entertains the hope that as the goodness of God never > ~ 


fails, he will be favourable towards him even to the end. 
Iwill dwell in the house of Jehovah. By this concluding 
sentence he manifestly shows that he does not confine his 
thoughts to earthly pleasures or comforts ; but that the mark 
at which he aims is fixed in heaven, and to reach this was his 
great object in all things. It is as if he had said, I do not 
live for the mere purpose of living, but rather to exercise 
myself in the fear and service of God, and to make progress 


daily in all the branches of true godliness. He makes a 


manifest distinction between himself and ungodly men, who 
take pleasure only in filling their bellies with luxuriant fare. 
And not only so, but he also intimates that to live to God 
is, in his estimation, of so great importance, that he valued 
all the comforts of the flesh only in proportion as they served 
to enable him to live to God. He plainly affirms, that the 
énd which he contemplated in all the benefits which God 
had conferred upon him was, that he might dwell in the 
house of the Lord. Whence it follows, that when deprived 
of the enjoyment of this blessing, he made no account of all 
other things ; as if he had said, I would take no pleasure in 
earthly comforts, unless I at the same time belonged to the 
flock of God, as he also writes in another place, “ Happy is 


400 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIV. 


that people that is in such a case: yea, happy is that people 
whose God is the Lord,” (Psalm exliv. 15.) Why did he 
desire so greatly to frequent the temple, but to offer sacri- 
fices there along with his fellow-worshippers, and to improve 
by the other exercises of religion in meditation upon the 
celestial life? It is, therefore, certain that the mind of 
David, by the aid of the temporal prosperity which he enjoy- 
ed, was elevated to the hope of the everlasting inheritance. 
From this we conclude, that those men are brutish who pro- 
pose to themselves any other felicity than that which arises 
from drawing near to God. 


PSALM XXIV. 


As God stands related to all mankind as their Creator and Governor, 
David, from this consideration, magnifies the special favour which God 
manifested towards the children of Abraham, in choosing them to be his 
peculiar people, in preference to the rest of mankind, and in erecting his 
sanctuary as his house that he might dwell among them. He shows, 
at the same time, that although the sanctuary was open to all the Jews, 
God was not near to all of them, but only to those who feared and 
served him in sincerity, and who had cleansed themselves from the 
pollutions of the world, in order to devote themselves to holiness and 
righteousness. Moreover, as the grace of God was more clearly mani- 
fested after the temple was built, he celebrates that grace in a strain 
of splendid poetry, to encourage true believers with the more alacrity 
to persevere in the exercise of serving and honouring him. 


A Psalm of David. 


1. The earth is Jehovah's, and the fulness thereof ;! the world, 


and they that dwell therein : 

2. For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon 
the floods. 

3. Who shall ascend unto the hill of Jehovah? who shall stand © 
in his holy place ? 


1 “ Son contenu.”—Note, Ir. marg. “ That is, its contents.” 


< 








PSALM XXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 401 


4. He who is clean of hands, and pure of heart ; who hath not 
lifted up his soul to vanity, nor sworn deceitfully, 


1. The earth is Jehovah's. We will find in many other 
places the children of Abraham compared with all the rest 
of mankind, that the free goodness of God, in selecting them 
from all other nations, and in embracing them with his 
favour, may shine forth the more conspicuously. The object 
of the beginning of the psalm is to show that the Jews had 
nothing of themselves which could entitle them to approach 
nearer or more familiarly to God than the Gentiles. As 
God by his providence preserves the world, the power of his 
government is alike extended to all, so that he ought to be 
worshipped by all, even as he also shows to all men, without 
exception, the fatherly care he has about them. But since 
he preferred the Jews to all other nations, it was indispen- 
sably necessary that there should be some sacred bond of 
connection between him and them, which might distinguish 
them from the heathen nations. By this argument David 
invites and exhorts them to holiness. He tells them that it 
was reasonable that those whem God had adopted as his 
children, should bear certain marks peculiar to themselves, 
and not be altogether like strangers. Not that he incites 
them to endeavour to prejudice God against others, in order 
to gain his exclusive favour; but he teaches them, from the 
end or design of their election, that they shall then have 
secured to them the firm and peaceful possession of the 
honour which God had conferred upon them above other 
nations, when they devote themselves to an upright and holy 
life. In vain would they have been collected together into 
a distinct body, as the peculiar people of God, if they did 
not apply themselves to the cultivation of holiness. In short, 
the Psalmist pronounces God to be the King of the whole 
world, to let all men know that, even by the law of nature, 
they are bound to serve him. And by declaring that he 
made a covenant of salvation with a small portion of man- 


1  Qu’adonc ils entreront en ferme et paisible possession de l’honneur 
que Dieu leur a fait par dessus les autres nations.” —Fr. 


VOL. I. 2c 


402 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIV. 


« 


kind, and by the erection of the tabernacle, gave the child- 


ren of Abraham the symbol of his presence, thereby to 
assure them of his dwelling in the midst of them, he teaches 
them that they must endeavour to have purity of heart and 
of hands, if they would be accounted the members of his 
sacred family. 

With respect to the word fulness, I admit that under it 
all the riches with which the earth is adorned are compre- 
hended, as is proved by the authority of Paul; but I have 
no doubt that the Psalmist intends by the expression men 
themselves, who are the most illustrious ornament and glory 
of the earth. If they should fail, the earth would exhibit a 
scene of desolation and solitude, not less hideous than if God 
should despoil it of all its other riches. To what purpose are 
there produced so many kinds of fruit, and in so great abun- 
dance, and why are there so many pleasant and delightful 
countries, if it is not for the use and comfort of men?! Ac- 
cordingly, David explains, in the following clause, that it is 
principally of men that he speaks. It is his usual manner to 
repeat the same thing twice, and here the fulness of the earth, 
and the inhabitants of the world, have the same meaning. I do 
not, however, deny that the riches with which the earth 
abounds for the use of men, are comprehended under these 
expressions. Paul, therefore, (1 Cor. x. 26,) when discour- 
sing concerning meats, justly quotes this passage in support 
of his argument, maintaining that no kind of food is unclean, 
because “the earth is the Lord’s, and the fulness thereof.” 


2. For he hath founded it upon the seas. 'The Psalmist here 
confirms the truth, that men are rightfully under the autho- 
rity and power of God, so that in all places and countries 
they ought to acknowledge him as King. And he confirms 
it from the very order manifested in the creation ; for the won- 
derful providence of God is clearly reflected in the whole face 
of the earth. In order to prove this, he brings forward the 


1 “ Car & quelle fin font produits des fruits de tant de sortes, et en telle 
abondance, et qu'il y a tant de lieux de plaisance, si non pour l’usage et 
commodite des hommes ?”—Fr, 





—_e, ye 





PSALM XXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 403 


proof of it, which is most evident. How is it that the earth 
appears above the water, but because God purposely intended 
to prepare a habitation for men? Philosophers themselves 
admit, that as the element of the water is higher than the 
earth, it is contrary to the nature of the two elements,! for 
any part of the earth to continue uncovered with the waters, 
and habitable. Accordingly, Job (chap. xxviii. 11, 25) 
extols, in magnificent terms, that signal miracle by which 
God restrains the violent and tempestuous ragings of the 
sea, that it may not overwhelm the earth, which, if not thus 
restrained, it would immediately do, and produce horrible 
confusion. Nor does Moses forget to mention this in the 
history of the creation. After having narrated that the 
waters were spread abroad so as to cover the whole earth, he 
adds, that by an express command of God they retired into 
one place, in order to leave empty space for the living crea- 
tures which were afterwards to be created, (Gen. i. 9.) From 
that passage we learn that God had a care about men before 
they existed, inasmuch as he prepared for them a dwelling- 
place and other conveniences; and that he did not regard 
them as entire strangers, seeing he provided for their neces- 
sities, not less liberally than the father of a family does for 
his own children. David does not here dispute philosophi- 
cally concerning the situation of the earth, when he says, 
that it has been founded upon the seas. He uses popular lan- 
guage, and adapts himself to the capacity of the unlearned. 
Yet this manner of speaking, which is taken from what may 
be judged of by the eye, is not without reason. The element 
of earth, it is true, in so far as it occupies the lowest place 
in the order of the sphere, is beneath the waters; but the 
habitable part of the earth is above the water, and how can 
we account for it, that this separation of the water from the 
earth remains stable, but because God has put the waters 
underneath, as it were for a foundation? Now, as from the 
creation of the world, God extended his fatherly care to all 
mankind, the prerogative of honour, by which the Jews 


1 * ©’est contre la nature des deux elemens.”—Fy. 


404 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIV. 


excelled all other nations, proceeded only from the free and 
sovereign choice by which God distinguished them. 


8. Who shall ascend unto. It being very well known that it 
was of pure grace that God erected his sanctuary, and chose 
for himself a dwelling-place among the Jews, David makes 
only a tacit reference to this subject.' He insists principally on 
the other point contained in the verse, that of distinguishing 
true Israelites from the false and bastards. He takes the 
argument by which he exhorts the Jews to lead a holy and 
righteous life from this, that God had separated them from 
the rest of the world, to be his peculiar inheritance. The 
rest of mankind, it is true, seeing they were created by 
him, belong to his empire; but he who occupies a place in 
the church is more nearly related to him. All those, there- 
fore, whom God receives into his flock he calls to holiness ; 
and he lays them under obligations to follow it by his adop- 
tion. Moreover, by these words David indirectly rebukes 
hypocrites, who scrupled not falsely to take to themselves the 
holy name of God, as we know that they are usually lifted 
up with pride, because of the titles which they take without 
having the excellencies which these titles imply, contenting 
themselves with bearing only outside distinctions ;* yea, 
rather he purposely magnifies this singular grace of God, that 
every man may learn for himself, that he has no right of en- 
trance or access to the sanctuary, unless he sanctify himself 
in order to serve God in purity. The ungodly and wicked, 
it is true, were in the habit of resorting to the tabernacle ; 
and, therefore, God, by the Prophet Isaiah, (chap. i. 12,) 
reproaches them for coming unworthily into his courts, and 
wearing the pavement thereof. But David here treats of 
those who may lawfully enter into God’s sanctuary. The 
house of God being holy, if any rashly, and without a right, 


1 “Tl n’en fait yei que bien petite mention et comme en passant.”— 
Fr. _ ‘* He here only slightly adverts to this subject, and as it were in 
passing.” 

* “ Comme nous scavons que c’est leur coustume de s’eslever par orgueil 
& cause des titres qu’ils prenent sans avoir l’effect, se contentans de porter 
seulement les marques par dehors.”—Fr. 


K 





vw FP ee St 7— 


sl 


PSALM XXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 405 


rush into it, their corruption and abuse are nothing else but 
polluting it. As therefore they do not go up thither lawfully, 
Dayid makes no account of their going up; yea, rather, 
under these words there is included a severe rebuke, of the 
conduct of wicked and profane men, in daring to go up into 
the sanctuary, and to pollute it with their impurity. On this 
subject I have spoken more fully on the 15th psalm. In the 
second part of the verse he seems to denote perseverance, as 
if he had said, Who shall go up into the hill of Sion, to 
appear and stand in the presence of God? The Hebrew 
word [>)p, Aum, it is true, sometimes signifies fo rise up, but 
it is generally taken for to stand, as we have seen in the first 
psalm. And although this is a repetition of the same idea, 
stated in the preceding clause, it is not simply so, but David, 
by expressing the end for which they ought to go up, illus- 
trates and amplifies the subject; and this repetition and 
amplification we find him often making use of in other psalms, 
In short, how much soever the wicked were mingled with the 
good in the church, in the time of David, he declares how 
yain a thing it is to make an external profession unless there 
be, at the same time, truth in the inward man. What he 
says concerning the tabernacle of the covenant must be 
applied to the continual government of the church. 


4. He who is clean of hands, and pure of heart. Under the 
purity of the hands and of the heart, and the reverence of 
God’s name, he comprehends all religion, and denotes a well 
ordered life. True purity, no doubt, has its seat in the heart, 
but it manifests its fruits in the works of the hands. The 
Psalmist, therefore, very properly joins to a pure heart the 
purity of the whole life; for that man acts a ridiculous 
part who boasts of having a sound heart, if he does not show 
by his fruits that the root is good. On the other hand, it 
will not suffice to frame the hands, feet, and eyes, according 
to the rule of righteousness, unless purity of heart precede 
outward continence. If any man should think it absurd that 
the first place is given to the hands, we answer without hesi- 
tation, that effects are often named before their causes, not 


oo 


406 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIV. 
that they precede them in order, but because it is sometimes 
advantageous to begin with things which are best known. 
David, then, would have the Jews to bring into the presence 
of God pure hands, and these along with an unfeigned heart. 
To lift up, or to take his soul, I have no doubt is here put for 
to swear. It is, therefore, here required of the servants of 
God, that when they swear, they do it with reverence and in 
good conscience ;' and, under one particular, by synecdoche, 
is denoted the duty of observing fidelity and integrity in all 
the affairs of life. That mention is here made of oaths, ap- 
pears from the words which immediately follow, And hath not 
sworn deceitfully, which are added as explanatory of what 
goes before. As, however, there is a twofold reading of the 
Hebrew word for soul, that is to say, as it may be read, my soul, 
or his soul, on account of the point Airek, some Jewish com- 
mentators read, Who hath not lifted up my soul to vanity,” 
and understand the word my as spoken of God, an exposition 
which I reject as harsh and strained. It is a manner of 
speaking which carries in it great emphasis, for it means, 
that those who swear offer their souls as pledges to God. 
Some, however, may perhaps prefer the opinion, that éo lift 
up the soul, is put for to apply it to lying, an interpretation to 
the adoption of which I have no great objection, for it makes 
little difference as to the sense. A question may here be 
raised—it may be asked, why David does not say so much as 
one word concerning faith and calling upon God. The rea- 
son of this is easily explained. As it seldom happens that a 
man behaves himself uprightly and innocently towards his 


1 “ Par ainsi il est yci requis des serviteurs de Dieu, que quand ils 
jurent, ce soit avec reverence et en bonne conscience.”—Fr. 

2 The textual reading is we, naphshiv, ‘is soul ; the marginal reading is 
ves, naphshi, my soul. But the textual reading, from its clearness and 
simplicity, is, without doubt, the correct one. “ The points,” says Ham- 
mond, ‘* direct to render WH), my soul, and so the interlinear reads ani- 


mam meam, my soul or life, as if it were ‘WD, making God the speaker of 


this verse, and then it is God’s life or soul. But the text writing ", not *, 
and the context agreeing with it, the punctuation must, in reason, give 
place ; and, accordingly, all the ancient interpreters peso to have read 
it wes, his soul, meaning by that his own soul, or the of the swearer.” 


. 











| PSALM XXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 407 


brethren, unless he is so endued with the true fear of 
God as to walk cireumspectly before him, David very just- 
ly forms his estimate of the piety of men towards God by 
the character of their conduct towards their fellow-men. 


For the same reason, Christ (Matth. xxiii. 23) represents 


judgment, mercy, and faith,” as the principal points of the 
law; and Paul calls “ charity” at one time “ the end of the 
law,” (1 Tim. i. 5,) and at another “ the bond of perfection,” 
(Col. iii. 14.) 


5. He shall receive blessing from Jehovah, and righteousness 
from the God of his salvation. 

6. This is the generation of them that seek him, of them that 
seek thy face, O Jacob!! Selah. 


5. He shall receive blessing. 'The more effectually to move 
the minds of the Israelites, David declares that nothing is more 
desirable than to be numbered among the flock of God, and 
to be members of the church. We must here consider that 
there is an implied contrast between true Israelites and those 
of them who were degenerate and bastards. The more license 
the wicked give themselves, the more presumptuous are 
they in pretending to the name of God, as if he were under 
obligation to them, because they are adorned with the same 
outward symbols or badges as true believers. Accordingly, the 
demonstrative pronoun this, in the following verse, is of great 
weight, for it expressly excludes all that bastard generation 


_ which gloried only in the mask of external ceremonies. And 


in this verse, when he speaks of blessing, he intimates that it 
is not those who boast of being the servants of God, while 
they have only the name, who shall be partakers of the pro- 
mised blessing, but those only who answer to their calling 
with their whole heart, and without hypocrisy. It is, as we 
have already observed, a very powerful inducement to god- 
liness and an upright life, when the faithful are assured that 
they do not lose their labour in following righteousness, since 
God has in reserve for them a blessing which cannot fail 
them. The word righteousness may be explained two ways. 


1“ Ascavoir, Jacob."—Fr. “ Namely, Jacob.” 


408 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIV. 


It either means all the benefits of God, by which he proves 
himself to be righteous and faithful towards his people in 
keeping his promises to them, or it denotes the fruit or reward 
of the believer’s righteousness. Indeed, David’s meaning is 
abundantly manifest. He intends to show on the one hand, 
that it is not to be expected that the fruit or reward of right- 
eousness will be bestowed on those who unrighteously profane 
God’s sacred worship ; and on the other hand, that it is impos- 
sible for God to disappoint his true worshippers; for it is his 
peculiar office to give evidence of his righteousness by doing 
them good. 


6. This is the generation. I have just now observed, that 
by the demonstrative pronoun this, the Psalmist erazes 
from the catalogue of the servants of God all counterfeit 
Israelites, who, trusting only to their circumcision and the 
sacrifices of beasts, have no concern about offering themselves 
to God ; and yet, at the same time, they rashly thrust them- 
selves into the church. Such persons may pretend to haye 
delight in the service of God, by often coming to his temple, 
but they have no other design than to withdraw themselves 
from him as far as they can. Now, as nothing was more 
common in the mouths of each of them than to say, that 
they all belonged to the holy seed, the Psalmist has limited 
the name of holy generation to the true observers of the law; 
as if he had said, All who have sprung from Abraham, accord- 
ing to the flesh, are not, on that account, his legitimate child- 
ren. It is, no doubt, truly said in many other places, as we 
shall see in Psalm xxvii., that those sought the face of God 
who, to testify their godliness, exercised themselves in the 
ceremonies before the ark of the covenant; that is to say, if 
they were brought thither b¥ a pure and holy affection. 
But as hypocrites seek God externally in a certain way, as 
well as true saints, while yet they shun him by their wind- 
ings and false pretences,’ David here declares that God is 
not sought in truth unless there go before a zealous cultiva- 
tion of holiness and righteousness. To give the sentence 


= 1 “ Lequel toutesfois ils fuyent par leurs destours et faux semblans.”— 
r. 





—————————— 


————=— rr a 





a a 
, 


PSALM XXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 409 


greater emphasis, he repeats it, using the second person, and 
addressing his discourse to God.' It is as if he summoned 
before the judgment-seat of God hypocrites, who account it 
nothing falsely to use the name of God before the world; 
and he thus teaches us, that whatever they may say in their 
empty talk among men, the judgment of God will be a very 
different matter. He adds the word Jacob, for the confirma- 
tion of the same doctrine, putting it for those who were 
descended from Jacob; as if he had said, Although circum- 
cision distinguishes all the seed of Jacob according to the 
flesh from the Gentiles, yet we can only distinguish the 
chosen people by the fear and reverence of God, as Christ 
said, “ Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!” 
(John i. 47.) 


7. Lift up your heads, O ye gates! and be ye lifted up, ye ever- 
lasting doors! and the King of glory shall enter in. 

8. Who is this King of glory? Jehovah strong and mighty, 
Jehovah mighty in battle. 

9. Lift up your heads, O ye gates! be ye lifted up, ye everlast- 
ing doors! and the King of glory shall enter in. 

10. Who is this King of glory ? Jehovah of hosts, he is the King 

of glory. Selah. 


7. Lift up your heads, O ye gates! The magnificent and 
splendid structure of the temple, in which there was more 
outward majesty than in the tabernacle, not being yet erected, 
Dayid here speaks of the future building of it. By doing 
this, he encourages the pious Israelites to employ themselves 
more willingly, and with greater confidence, in the ceremonial 
observances of the law. It was no ordinary token of the 
goodness of God that he condescended to dwell in the midst 
of them by a visible symbol of his presence, and was willing 
that his heavenly dwelling-place should be seen upon earth. 
This doctrine ought to be of use to us at this day; for it is 
an instance of the inestimable grace of God, that so far as 
the infirmity of our flesh will permit, we are lifted up even 
to God by the exercises of religion, What is the design of 


1 He first says, ‘* That seek him,” and next, ‘* That seek thy face.” 


410 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIV. 


the preaching of the word, the sacraments, the holy assem- 
blies, and the whole external government of the church, but 
that we may be united to God? It is not, therefore, with- 
out good reason that David extols so highly the service of 
God appointed in the law, seeing God exhibited himself 
to his saints in the ark of the covenant, and thereby gave 
them a certain pledge of speedy succour whenever they should 
invoke him for aid. God, it is true, “dwelleth not in temples 
made with hands,”.nor does he take delight in outward pomp ; 
but as it was useful, arid as it was also the pleasure of God, 
that his ancient people, who were rude, and still in their 
infancy, should be lifted up to him by earthly elements, 
David does not here hesitate to set forth to them, for the 
confirmation of their faith, the sumptuous building of the 
temple, to assure them that it was not a useless theatre; 
but that when they rightly worshipped God in it, according 
to the appointment of his word, they stood as it were in his 
presence, and would actually experience that he was near 
them. The amount of what is stated is, that in proportion 
as the temple which God had commanded to be built to him 
upon mount Sion, surpassed the tabernacle in magnificence, it 
would be so much the brighter a mirror of the glory and power 
of God dwelling among the Jews. In the meantime, as David 
himself burned with intense desire for the erection of the tem- 
ple, so he wished to inflame the hearts of all the godly with the 
same ardent desire, that, aided by the rudiments of the law, 
they might make more and more progress in the fear of God. 
He terms the gates, everlasting, because the promise of God 
secured their continual stability. The temple excelled ir 
materials and in workmanship, but its chief excellence con- 
sisted in this, that the promise of God was engrayen upon 
it, as we shall see in Psalm cxxxii. 14, “ This is my rest 
for ever.” In terming the gates everlasting, the Psalmist, 
at the same time, I have no doubt, makes a tacit contrast 
between the tabernacle and the temple. The tabernacle 
never had any certain abiding place, but being from time 
to time transported from one place to another, was like a 
wayfaring man. When, however, mount Sion was chosen, 
and the temple built, God then began to have there a certain 





PSALM XXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 411 


and fixed place of abode. By the coming of Christ, that 
visible shadow vanished, and it is therefore not wonderful 
that the temple is no longer to be seen upon mount Sion, 
seeing it is now so great as to occupy the whole world. 
If it is objected, that at the time of the Babylonish captivity 
the gates which Solomon had built were demolished, I 
answer, God’s decree stood fast, notwithstanding that tem- 
porary overthrow; and by virtue of it, the temple was soon 
after rebuilt ; which was the same as if it had always conti- 
nued entire. The Septuagint has from ignorance corrupted 
this passage. The Hebrew word D'YN5, rashim, which we 
have rendered heads, is no doubt sometimes taken meta- 


phorically for princes ; but the word your, which is here an- 


nexed to it, sufficiently shows that we cannot draw from it 
another sense than this—that the gates lift up their heads, 
otherwise we must say, Your princes. Some, therefore, 
think that kings and magistrates are here admonished of 
their duty, which is to open up the way, and give entrance 
to God. This is a plausible interpretation, but it is too 
much removed from the design and words of the prophet. 
Above all, from the natural sense of the words, we may per- 
ceive how foolishly and basely the Papists have abused this 
passage for the confirmation of the gross and ridiculous 
notion by which they introduce Christ as knocking at the 
gate of the infernal regions, in order to obtain admission.’ 


_ Let us, therefore, learn from this, to handle the holy word 


of God with sobriety and reverence, and to hold Papists 
in detestation, who, as it were, make sport of corrupting 


1 The Septuagint reads, ‘‘ Apars rvads of dpxovres vway ;” which may 
pa rendoret **Ye princes, ‘litt up your gates.” ‘The Ai of the Vulgate 
_ Baler? Atcoltte portas fabs vestras :” and so is that of the 
‘Aéabic ir ok ZEthiopic. Put that rendering, as Calvin justly observes, is 
-mgomaguege te for in the Hebrew text, the affix o>, kem, your, is joined 
, heads, and not to = ye, shearim, gates. Although, however, 
+ Rak reading the Septuagint may be translated as above, ** Ye princes, lift 
up your gates, ” Hammond thinks it more probable, that the translators 
intended of dexorres tn an, your princes, to represent H>vew, rashekem, 
your heads, inverting, Mi as mistake, the construction of the sentence, so 
as to ~y this reading, “ Your heads, or princes, lift up the gates,” instead 
of, “* Ye gates, lift up your heads.” 
‘2a Par Ng al introduissent Christ frappant ala porte pour entrer 
és enfers.”— 


412 M COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIV. 


and falsifying it in this manner, by their execrable impie- 
ties.! 


8. Who is this King of glory? &c. The praises by which 
the power of God is here magnified are intended to teach the 
Jews that he did not sit idle in his temple, but took up his 
abode in it, in order to show himself ready to succour his 
people. It is to be observed, that there is great weight both 
in the interrogation, and in the repetition of the same sen- 
tence. The prophet assumes the person of one who wonders 
thereby to express with greater effect that God comes armed 
with invincible power to maintain and save his people, and 
to keep the faithful in safety under his shadow. We have — 
already said, that when God is spoken of as dwelling in the 
temple, it is not to be understood as if his infinite and incom- 
prehensible essence had been shut up or confined within it; 
but that he was present there by his power and grace, as is 
implied in the promise which he made to Moses, “ In all 
places where I record my name, I will come unto thee, and 
I will bless thee,” (Exod. xx. 24.) That this was no yain 
and empty promise, but that God truly dwelt in the midst 
of the people, is what the faithful experienced who sought 
him not superstitiously, as if he had been fixed to the tem- 
ple, but made use of the temple and of the service which was 
performed in it for elevating their hearts to heayen. The 
amount of what is stated is, that whenever the people should 
call upon God in the temple, it would manifestly appear, 
from the effect which would follow, that the ark of the cove- 
nant was not a vain and an illusory symbol of the presence 
of God, because he would always stretch forth his omnipo- 
tent arm for the defence and protection of his people. The 
repetition teaches us that true believers cannot be too con- — 
stant and diligent in meditation on this subject. The Son 
of God, clothed with our flesh, has now shown himself to 
be King of glory and Lord of hosts, and he is not entered in- 
to his temple only by shadows and figures, but really and in 
very deed, that he may dwell in the midst of us. There is, — 






1 « Qui comme sacrileges execrables tienent pour jeu de la corrompre 
et falsifier en ceste sorte." —Jr. 


- 


i 


[ea 





Seer 


a 


PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 413 


therefore, nothing to hinder us from boasting that we shall 
be invincible by his power. Mount Sion, it is true, is not 
at this day the place appointed for the sanctuary, and the 
ark of the covenant is no longer the image or representation 
of God dwelling between the cherubim ; but as we have this 
privilege in common with the fathers, that, by the preaching 
of the word and the sacraments, we may be united to God, 
it becomes us to use these helps with reverence; for if we 
despise them by a detestable pride, God cannot but at length 
utterly withdraw himself from us. 


PSALM XXvV. 


This psalm consists of meditations mingled with prayers. Being rudely 
treated, and grievously distressed, by the cruelty of his enemies, 
David, in order to obtain assistance from God, first acknowledges 
that God had justly made use of this as a means of chastising and 
punishing him for his sins ; and, therefore, he prays for their forgive- 
ness, that he may at once enjoy assurance of the divine favour, and 
obtain deliverance. He then implores the aid of the Holy Spirit, that, 
sustained by it, he might, even in the midst of so many temptations, 
continue in the fear of God. And in various places he intermingles 
meditation, as the means of stirring up himself to increased confi- 
dence in God, and of withdrawing his thoughts from the allurements of 
the world. 


A Psalm of David. 
1. Unto thee, O Jehovah! I have lifted up my soul 
2. O my God! I have put my trust in thee ; let me not be 
ashamed ; let not mine enemies rejoice over me. 
3. Yea, none of those that wait on thee shall be ashamed ; but 
they shall be ashamed that deal falsely without cause. 


1. Unto thee, O Jehovah! §c. The Psalmist declares at 
the very outset, that he is not driven hither and thither, 
after the manner of the ungodly, but that he directs all his 

_ desires and prayers to God alone. Nothing is more incon- 


- 


414 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXV. 


” 


sistent with true and sincere prayer to God, than to waver 
and gaze about as the heathen do, for some help from the 
world ; and at the same time to forsake God, or not to betake 
ourselves directly to his guardianship and protection. Those 
who imagine that David here declares that he had devoted him- 
self entirely to God, as if he had offered up himself in sacrifice, 
do not properly understand the import of the passage. The 
meaning rather is, that in order to strengthen the hope of 
obtaining his request, he declares, what is of the greatest 
importance in prayer, that he had his hope fixed in God, and 
that he was not ensnared by the allurements of the world, or 
prevented from lifting up his soul fully and unfeignedly to 
God. In order, therefore, that we may pray aright to God, 
let us be directed by this rule—not to distract our minds by 
various and uncertain hopes, nor to depend on worldly aid, 
but to yield to God the honour of lifting up our hearts to 
him in sincere and earnest prayer. Moreover, although the 
verb is properly rendered, J will lift up, yet I have followed 
other interpreters in changing it into the past tense, J have 
lifted up. By the future tense, however, David denotes a 
continued act. 


2. O my God! I have put my trust in thee. By this verse 
we learn, (what will appear more clearly afterwards,) that 
David had to do with men; but as he was persuaded that 
his enemies were, as it were, the scourges of God, he with 
good reason asks that God would restrain them by his power, 
lest they should become more insolent, and continue to 
exceed all bounds. By the word trust he confirms what he 
had just said of the lifting up of his soul to God; for the 
term is employed either as descriptive of the way in which 
the souls of the faithful are lifted up, or else faith and hope 
are added as the cause of such an effect, namely, the lift- 
ing up of the soul. And, indeed, these are the wings by 
which our souls, rising above this world, are lifted up to God. 
David, then, was carried upward to God with the whole 
desire of his heart, because, trusting to his promises, he 
thereby hoped for sure salvation. When he asks that God - 
would not suffer him to be put to shame, he offers up a prayer, 


: 
| 





PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 415 


which is taken from the ordinary doctrine of Scripture, 
namely, that they who trust in God shall never be ashamed. 
The reason which is added, and which he here pleads, to in- 
duce God to have pity upon him, ought also to be noticed. 
It is this, that he might not be exposed to the derision of his 
enemies, whose pride is no less hurtful to the feelings of the 
godly than it is displeasing to God. 


3. Yea, none of those, §c. If these words should be explain- 
ed in the form of a desire, as if David had said, Let none 
who wait on thee be put to shame,' then, in this verse, he 
continues his prayer, and extends to all the faithful in com- 
mon what he had spoken of himself alone. But I am rather 
inclined to understand the words in a different sense, and 
to view them as meaning that David shows the fruit of divine 
grace which should proceed from his deliverance. And there 
is peculiar force in the word yea; for as he knew that he was 
seen by many, and that the report of his confidence in God 
was widely spread, his meaning is, that what shall be done in 
his person shall extend far and wide, as an example to others, 
and shall have the effect of reviving and animating all the 
children of God, on the one hand, and of casting to the ground 
the arrogance of the wicked, on the other. The words might 
also be understood in another sense, namely, that David, for 
the strengthening of his faith, sets before himself a promise 
which God frequently makes in his word. But the sense in 
which I have interpreted them seems to be more suitable. By 
the wicked that deal falsely without cause, he no doubt means 
especially his enemies. Accordingly, he declares that when 
he is delivered he will not enjoy exclusively the benefit of it ; 
but that its fruit shall extend to all true believers; just as on 
the other hand, the faith of many would have been shaken 
if he had been forsaken of-God. In the last clause of the 
verse, which he puts in opposition to the first, he argues that 
when the wicked lie confounded, it redounds to the glory of 
God, because the vaunting in which they indulge in their 
prosperity is an open mockery of God, while, in despite of his 


_ 1 “ Que tous ceux qui s’attendant 4 toy ne soyent point confus.”—Fr, 


416 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXY. 


judgment, they break forth more boldly in doing evil. When 
he adds, without cause, it only tends to show the aggravated 
nature of the offence. The wickedness of a man is always the 


more intolerable, when, unprovoked by wrongs, he sets him- — 


self, of his own accord, to injure the innocent and blameless. 


4. O Jehovah ! make me to know thy ways, and teach me thy paths. 

5. Lead me in thy truth, and teach me ; for thou art the God of 
my salvation : I have waited for thee all the day. 

6. Remember, O Jehovah! thy tender mercies and thy loving- 
kindnesses, for they have been from everlasting. 

7. Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions : 
according to thy compassion, and for the sake of thy good- 
ness, O Jehovah! do thou remember me. 


4. O Jehovah! make me to know thy ways. By the ways of 
the Lord, David sometimes means, as we have seen in another 
place, the happy and prosperous issue of affairs, but more fre- 
quently he uses this expression to denote the rule of a holy 
and righteous life. As the term ¢ruth occurs in the imme- 
diately following verse, the prayer which he offers up in this 
place is, in my opinion, to this effect : Lord, keep thy servant 
in the firm persuasion of thy promises, and do not suffer him 
to turn aside to the right hand or to the left. When our 
minds are thus composed to patience, we undertake nothing 
rashly or by improper means, but depend wholly upon the 
providence of God. Accordingly, in this place Dayid desires 
not merely to be directed by the Spirit of God, lest he should 
err from the right way, but also that God would clearly mani- 
fest to him his truth and faithfulness in the promises of his 
word, that he might live in peace before him, and be free from 
all impatience.’ If any one would rather take the words ina 
general sense, as if David committed himself wholly to God 
to be governed by him, I do not object to it. As, however, 
I think it probable, that, under the name of éruth in the next 
verse, he explains what he means by the ways and paths of 


God, of which he here speaks, I have no hesitation in refer- — 


ring the prayer to this circumstance, namely, that David, 


afraid of yielding to the feeling of impatience, or the desire — 


1 « Et sans estre troublé d’impatience.”—Fr. 


— 2 7 eee. 


PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS, 417 


of revenge, or some extravagant and unlawful impulse, asks 
that the promises of God may be deeply impressed and 
engraven on his heart. For I have said before, that as long 
as this thought prevails in our minds, that God takes care 
of us, it is the best and most powerful means for resisting 
temptations. If, however, by the ways and paths of God, 
any would rather understand his doctrine, I, nevertheless, 
still hold this as a settled point, that in the language of the 
Psalmist there is an allusion to those sudden and irregular 
emotions which arise in our minds when we are tossed by 
adversity, and by which we are precipitated into the devious 
and deceitful paths of error, till they are in due time subdued 
or allayed by the word of God. Thus the meaning is, What- 
ever may happen, suffer me not, O Lord, to fall from thy 
ways, or to be carried away by a wilful disobedience to thy 
authority, or any other sinful desire; but rather let thy 
truth preserve me in a state of quiet repose and peace, by an 
humble submission to it. Moreover, although he frequently 
repeats the same thing, asking that God would make him to 
know his ways, and teach him in them, and lead him in his 
truth, there is no redundancy in these forms of speech. Our 
adversities are often like mists which darken the eyes; and 
every one knows from his own experience how difficult a 
thing it is, while these clouds of darkness continue, to discern 
in what way we ought to walk. But if David, so distin- 
guished a prophet and endued with so much wisdom, stood 
in need of divine instruction, what shall become of us if, in 
our afflictions, God dispel not from our minds those clouds 
of darkness*which prevent us from seeing his light ? As often, 
then, as any temptation may assail us, we ought always to 
pray that God would make the light of his truth to shine 
upon us, lest, by having recourse to sinful devices, we should 
go astray, and wander into devious and forbidden paths. 

At the same time, we ought to observe the argument 
which David here employs to enforce his prayer. By calling 
God the God of his salvation, he does so in order to strengthen 
his hope in God for the future, from a consideration of the 
benefits which he had already received from him ; and then he 

VOL. I. 2D 


418 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXY. 


repeats the testimony of his confidence towards God. Thus 
the first part of the argument is taken from the nature of 
God himself, and the duty which, as it were, belongs to him; 
that is to say, because he engages to maintain the welfare 
of the godly, and aids them in their necessities, on this ground, 
that he will continue to manifest the same favour towards 
them even to the end. But as it is necessary that our confi- 
dence in God should correspond to his great goodness to~ 
wards us, David alleges it, at the same time, in connection 
with a declaration of his perseverance. For, by the expres- 
sion all the day, or every day, he signifies that with a fixed 
and untiring constancy he depended upon God alone. And, 
doubtless, it is the property of faith always to look to God, 
even in the most trying circumstances, and patiently to wait 
for the aid which he has promised. That the recollection of 
the divine blessings may nourish and sustain our hope, let us 
learn to reflect upon the goodness which God has already 
manifested towards us, as we see that David did in making 
this the ground of his confidence, that he had found in his 
own personal experience God to be the author of salvation. 


6. Remember, O Jehovah! From this it appears, in the 
first place, that David was grievously afflicted and tried, so 
much so that he had lost all sense of God’s mercy: for he 
calls upon God to remember for him his favour, in such a 
manner as if he had altogether forgotten it. This, there- 
fore, is the complaint of a man suffering extreme anguish, 
and overwhelmed with grief. We may learn from this, that 
although God, for a time, may withdraw from us every 
token of his goodness, and, apparently regardless of the 
miseries which afflict us, should, as if we were strangers to 
him, and not his own people, forsake us, we must fight cou- 
rageously, until, set free from this temptation, we cordially 
present #he prayer which is here recorded, beseeching God, 
that, returning to his former manner of dealing, he would 
again begin to manifest his goodness towards us, and to deal 
with us in a more gracious manner. This form of prayer 
cannot be used with propriety, unless when God is hiding 





PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. — 419 


his face from us, and seems to take no interest at all in us. 
+ Moreover David, by having recourse to the mercy or com- 
passion and goodness of God, testifies that he trusts not to 
his own merit as any ground of hope. He who derives every 
thing from the fountain of divine mercy alone, finds no- 
thing in himself entitled to recompense in the sight of God. 
But as the intermission which David had experienced was 
an obstacle which prevented his free access to God, he rises 
above it, by the very best remedy—the consideration, that 
although God, who from his very nature is merciful, may 
withdraw himself, and cease for a time to manifest his power, 
yet he cannot deny himself; that is to say, he cannot divest 
himself of the feeling of mercy which is natural to him, and 
which can no more cease than his eternal existence. But we 
must firmly maintain this doctrine, that God has been mer- 
ciful even from the beginning, so that if at any time he seem 
to act with severity towards us, and to reject our prayers, 
we must not imagine that he acts contrary to his real char- 
acter, or that he has changed his purpose. Hence we learn 
for what end it is that the Scriptures every where inform 
us, that in all ages God has regarded his servants with a 
benignant eye, and exercised his mercy towardsthem.’ This, 
at least, we ought to regard as a fixed and settled point, 
that although the goodness of God may sometimes be hid- 
den, and as it were buried out of sight, it can never be extin- 


guished. 


7. Remember not the sins of my youth. As our sins are like 
a wall between us and God, which prevents him from hear- 
ing our prayers, or stretching forth his hand to help us, David 
now removes this obstruction. It is indeed true, in general, 
that men pray in a wrong way, and in vain, unless they begin 
by seeking the forgiveness.of their sins. There is no hope of 
obtaining any favour from God unless he is reconciled to us, 
How shall he love us unless he first freely reconcile us to 
himself? The right and proper order of prayer therefore is, 
as I have said, to ask, at the very outset, that God would par- 


1 +* Et usé de douceur envers eux,”—/r. 


420 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXYV. 


don our sins. David here acknowledges, in explicit terms, 
_ that he cannot in any other way become a partaker of the 
grace of God than by having his sins blotted out. In order, 
therefore, that God may be mindful of his mercy towards us, 
it is necessary that he forget our sins, the very sight of which 
turns away his favour from us. In the meantime, the Psalmist 
confirms by this more clearly what I have already said, that 
although the wicked acted towards him with cruelty, and per- 
secuted him unjustly, yet he ascribed to his own sins all the 
misery which he endured. For why should he ask the for- 
giveness of his sins, by having recourse to the mercy of God, 
but because he acknowledged, that by the cruel treatment he 
received from his enemies, he only suffered the punishment 
which he justly merited ? He has, therefore, acted wisely in 
turning his thoughts to the first cause of his misery, that he 
may find out the true remedy; and thus he teaches us by 
his example, that when any outward affliction presses upon 
us, we must entreat God not only to deliver us from it, but 
also to blot out our sins, by which we have provoked his dis- 
pleasure, and subjected ourselves to his chastening rod. If we 
act otherwise, we shall follow the example of unskilful physi- 
cians, who, overlooking the cause of the disease, only seek to 
alleviate the pain, and apply merely adventitious remedies for 
thecure. Moreover, David makes confession not only of some 
slight offences, as hypocrites are wont to do, who, by con- 
fessing their guilt in a general and perfunctory manner, either 
seek some subterfuge, or else extenuate the enormity of their 
sin; but he traces back his sins even to his very childhood, 
and considers in how many ways he had provoked the wrath 
of God against him. When he makes mention of the sins 
which he had committed in his youth, he does not mean by 
this that he had no remembrance of any of the sins which 
he had committed in his later years; but it is rather to show 
that he considered himself worthy of so much the greater 
condemnation.' In the first place, considering that he had 
not begun only of late to commit sin, but that he had for 
a long time heaped up sin upon sin, he bows himself, if we 


1 « Redevable de tant plus grande econdemnation.”—Fr, 


PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 421 


may so speak, under the accumulated load ; and, in the second 
place, he intimates, that if God should deal with him accord- 
ing to the rigour of law, not only the sins of yesterday, or of 
a few days, would come into judgment against him, but all 
the instances in which he had offended, even from his infancy, 
might now with justice be laid to his charge. As often, 
therefore, as God terrifies us by his judgments and the tokens 
of his wrath, let us call to our remembrance, not only the 
sins which we have lately committed, but also all the trans- 
gressions of our past life, proving to us the ground of renewed 
shame and renewed lamentation. Besides, in order to express 
more fully that he supplicates a free pardon, he pleads before 
God only on the ground of his mere good pleasure; and 
therefore he says, According to thy compassion do thou remem- 
ber me. When God casts our sins into oblivion, this leads 
him to behold us with fatherly regard. David can discover 
no other cause by which to account for this paternal regard 
of God, but that he is good, and hence it follows that there 
is nothing to induce God to receive us into his favour but his 
own good pleasure. When God is said to remember us 
according to his mercy, we are tacitly given to understand 
that there are two ways of remembering which are entirely 
- opposite; the one when he visits sinners in his wrath, and 
the other when he again manifests his favour to those of whom 
he seemed for a time to take no account. 


8. Good and upright is Jehovah ; therefore will he teach sin- 
ners int he way. 
9. He will guide the poor in judgment, and will teach the poor? 
his way. 
10. All the ways of Jehovah are mercy and truth, to those who 
keep his covenant and his testimony. 
ll. For thy name's sake, O Jehovah! be thou merciful to mine 
iniquity, for it is great. 
8. Good and uprightis Jehovah. Pausing for a little, as it 
were in the prosecution of his prayer, he exercises his 


thoughts in meditation upon the goodness of God, that he 


1 “ Humbles."—Fr. Humble.” 


422 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XX¥. 


may return with renewed ardour to prayer. The faithful 
feel that their hearts soon languish in prayer, unless they 
are constantly stirring themselves up to it by new incite- 
ments; so rare and difficult a thing is it to persevere sted- 
fastly and unweariedly in this duty. And, indeed, as one 
must frequently lay on fuel in order to preserve a fire, so the 
exercise of prayer requires the aid of such helps, that it may 
not languish, and at length be entirely extinguished. David, 
therefore, desirous to encourage himself to perseverance, 
speaks to himself, and affirms that God is good and upright, 
that, gathering new strength by meditating on this truth, he 
may return with the more alacrity to prayer. But we must 
observe this consequence—that as God is good and upright, he 
stretches forth his hand ¢o sinners to bring them back again 
into the way. To attribute to God an uprightness which he 
may exercise only towards the worthy and the meritorious, is 
a cold view of his character, and of little advantage to sinners, 
and yet the world commonly apprehends that God is good in 
no other sense. How comes it to pass that scarcely one in a 
hundred applies to himself the mercy of God, ifit is not because 
men limit it to those who are worthy of it? Now, on the 
contrary, it is here said, that God gives a proof of his upright- 
ness when he shows to transgressors the way; and this is of ~ 
the same import as to call them to repentance, and to teach 
them to live uprightly. And, indeed, if the goodness of God 
did not penetrate even to hell, no man would ever become a 
partaker of it. Let the Papists then boast as they please of 
their imaginary preparations, but let us regard this as a sure 
and certain doctrine, that if God do not prevent men by his 
grace, they shall all utterly perish. David, therefore, here 
commends this preventing grace, as it is ‘called, which is 
manifested either when God in calling us at first renews, 
by the Spirit of regeneration, our corrupt nature, or when he 
brings us back again into the right way, after we have gone 
astray from him by our sins. For since even those whom 
God receives for his disciples are here called sinners, it follows 
that he renews them by his Holy Spirit, that they may be- 
come docile and obedient. 





PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 423 


9. He will guide the poor in judgment. The Psalmist here 
specifies the second manifestation of his grace which God 
makes towards those who, being subdued by his power, and 
brought under his yoke, bear it willingly, and submit them- 
selves to his government. But never will this docility be 
found in any man, until the heart, which is naturally elated 
and filled with pride, has been humbled and subdued. As the 
Hebrew word [>\3y, anavim, denotes the poor or afflicted, 
and is employed in a metaphorical sense, to denote the meek 
and humble, it is probable that David, under this term, 
includes the afflictions which serve to restrain and sub- 
due the frowardness of the flesh, as well as the grace of 
humility itself; as if he had said, When God has first humbled 
them, then he kindly stretches forth his hand to them, and 
leads and guides them throughout the whole course of their 
life. Moreover, some understand these terms, judgment and 
way of the Lord, as denoting a righteous and well ordered 
manner of life. Others refer them to the providence of God, 
an interpretation which seems more correct, and more agree- 
able to the context, for it is immediately added, All the ways 
of Jehovah are mercy and truth. The meaning therefore is, that 
those who are truly humbled in their hearts, and brought to 
place their confidence in God, shall experience how much care 
he has for his children,’ and how well he provides for their 
necessities. The terms, judgment and way of the Lord, there- 
fore, are simply of the same import in this place as his 
government, in the exercise of which he shows that he, as a 
kind father, has a special interest in the welfare of his child- 
ren, by relieving them when they are oppressed, raising 
them up when cast down, cheering and comforting them 
when sorrowful, and succouring them when afflicted. We 
perceive, then, by what order God proceeds in the manifes- 
tation of his grace towards us. First, he brings us again into 
the way when we are wandering and going astray from him, 
or rather, when we are already fugitives and exiles from him, 
he restrains our frowardness; and whereas we were before 
froward and rebellious, he now subdues us to the obedience of 


1 * Quel soin il ha de ses enfans.”—J'r. 


424 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXV. 


his righteousness: and, secondly, after he has afflicted and 
tried us, he does not forsake us; but after he has moulded 
and trained us by the cross to humility and meekness, he 
still shows himself to be a wise and provident father in guid- 
ing and directing us through life. 


10. All the ways of Jehovah. This verse is erroneously 
interpreted by those who think that the doctrine of the law 
is here described as true and sweet, and that those who keep 
it feel it indeed to be so, as if this passage were of the same 
import as that which was spoken by Jesus Christ, (Matth. 
xi. 30,) “My yoke is easy, and my burden is light.” Such 
an interpretation is not only strained, but may also be 
easily disproved by many similar passages in which the 
expression, The ways of the Lord, is taken in a passive signifi- 
cation, for the paternal manner in which he acts towards 
those who are his people, in defending and cherishing them ; 
nay, even for his whole conduct in the government and 
direction of the affairs of this world. The amount of what 
is said is, that God acts in such a manner towards his people, 
as that, in all respects, they may find from experience that 
he is merciful and faithful. David is not here speaking of the 
character in which God acts towards mankind in general, 
but what his own children find him to be. We have already 
seen in Ps. xviii. 26, that he is stern and severe towards the 
obstinate and rebellious; and even though he act with kind- 
ness towards them, in mercifully exercising forbearance to- 
wards them notwithstanding their iniquity, yet we find, that so 
far from seeking their full enjoyment in him, and trusting to 
his promises, they have no sense of his goodness. Nay,as soon 
as any adversity befalls them, they either become passionate 
and fretful, accuse God of acting cruelly towards them, or 
else complain that he is deaf to their prayers ; and when they 
enjoy prosperity, they despise and neglect him, and as much 
as they are able flee from his presence. David, therefore, 
in speaking of the mercy and faithfulness of God, justly 
describes them as a treasure peculiar to the godly; as if he 
had said, We have no reason to be afraid that God will 
deceive us if we persevere in his covenant. These words, 


i a 


PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 425 


covenant and testimony, are of the same import, unless that 
the second is added as an explanation of the first. They 
comprehend the whole doctrine of the law, by which God 
enters into covenant with his chosen people. 


‘11. For thy name's sake, O Jehovah! As in the original 
text the copulative and is inserted between the two clauses 
of this verse, some think that the first clause is incomplete, 
and that some word ought to be supplied; and then they 
read these words, Be thou merciful to mine iniquity, §c., as 
a distinct sentence by itself. And thus, according to their 
opinion, the sense would be, Lord, although I have not fully 
kept thy covenant, yet do not on that account cease to show 
thy kindness towards me; and that mine iniquity may not 
prevent thy goodness from being extended towards me, do 
thou graciously pardon it. But 1 am rather of the opinion of 
others, who consider that the copulative is here, as it is in 
many other places, superfluous, so that the whole verse may 
form one connected sentence. As to the tense of the verb, 
there is also a diversity of opinion among interpreters. Some 
render it in the past tense thus, Thou hast been merciful, as if 
David here renders thanks to God because he had pardoned 
his sin. But the other interpretation, which is the one 
more generally received, is also the most correct, namely, that 
David, in order to obtain pardon, again resorts to the mercy 
of God as his only refuge. The letter }, vau, which is 
equivalent to and, has often the force of changing the tense 
in the Hebrew verbs, so that the future tense is often taken 
in the sense of the optative. Moreover, I connect this verse 
with the preceding one in this way: The prophet, having 
reflected upon this, that God is kind and faithful to those 
who serve him, now examines his own heart, and acknow- 
ledges that he cannot be accounted of their number, unless 
God grant unto him the forgiveness of his sins; and, there- 
fore, he betakes himself to prayer for pardon: as in Ps. xix. 
13, after having spoken of the reward which is laid up 
for the faithful who keep the law, he instantly exclaims, 
“Who can understand his errors?’ Accordingly, although 
Dayid is not ignorant that God promises liberally to bestow 


426 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXV. 


upon those who keep his covenant every thing which pertains 
to a life of happiness, yet, at the same time, considering how 
far he is as yet from the perfect righteousness of the law, he 
does not rest his confidence upon it, but seeks a remedy for 
the manifold offences of which he feels himself to be guilty. 
And thus, in order that God may reckon us of the number 
of his servants, we ought always to come to him, entreating 
him, after the example of David, in his fatherly loving-kind- 
ness, to bear with our infirmities, because, without the free 
remission of our sins, we have no reason to expect any 
reward of our works. At the same time, let it be observed, 
that in order to show more distinctly that he depends entirely 
upon the free grace of God, he expressly says, for thy name's 
sake; meaning by this, that God, as often as he vouchsafes to 
pardon his people, does so from no other cause than his own 
good pleasure; just as he had said a little before, in the same 
verse, for thy goodness’ sake. He was also constrained, by a 
consideration of the magnitude of his offence, to call upon the 
name of God: for he immediately adds, by way of confession, 
because mine iniquity is great, or manifold, (for the word 3%, 
rab, may be translated in both ways;) as if he had said, My 
sins are, indeed, like a heavy burden which overwhelms me, 
so that the multitude or enormity of them might well deprive 
me of all hope of pardon; but, Lord, the infinite glory of thy 
name will not suffer thee to cast me off. 


12. Who is the man that feareth Jehovah? he will teach him in 
the way that he should choose. 
13. His soul shall dwell in good, and his seed shall inherit the 


earth. 


14. The counsel! of Jehovah is towards them that fear him, that he 


may make known his covenant to them. 


15. Mine eyes are continually towards Jehovah, for he will bring 
my feet out of the net. 


12. Who is the man. By again recalling to his mind the — 
character in which God manifests himself towards his servants, _ 
he derives new strength and courage. For we have said, — 


1“ Qu, secret.”—Fr. ** Or, secret.” 





PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 427 


that nothing more readily occurs than a relaxation in earnest 
and attentive prayer, unless it be sustained by the recollec- 
tion of God’s promises. There can, however, be no doubt, 
that David both accuses himself, and by entertaining a better 
hope, takes encouragement to continue in the fear of God. 
In the first place, by intimating that men are destitute of 
right understanding and sound judgment, because they yield 
not themselves to be governed by God with reverence and 
fear, he imputes it to his own indolence, that by reason of 
the darkness of his mind, he had wandered so far astray after 
his own lusts; and yet, on the other hand, he promises him- 
self the guidance and direction of the Holy Spirit, if he only 
yield himself wholly to God, and show that he is willing to 
learn. Moreover, the interrogatory style of speaking, which 
he here employs, seems designed to show how few there are 
who fear God: for, although all men in general pray, and 
manifest some appearance of piety, yet where is there one 
among so many who is really in earnest? Instead of this, 
almost all men indulge themselves in their own drowsiness. 
The fear of God, therefore, is very rare ; and on this account 
it is that the world, for the most part, continues destitute of - 
the Spirit of counsel and wisdom. 

Some interpreters render the word choose in the present 
tense, instead of the future, shall choose; as if it had been 
said, that God shows the way which he approves, and in 
which he wishes men to walk. With this interpretation I 
cannot agree; for, in my judgment, the word choose rather 
refers to every individual ; .as if it had been said, Provided 
we are disposed to fear God, he will not be wanting on 
his part, but will always direct us by the Spirit of wisdom 
to choose the right way. When we are called upon to adopt 
some particular course in life, we find ourselves as it were 
placed between two ways, and know not which of them 
to follow ;' nay, in almost all our affairs we are held in sus- 
pense and doubt, unless God appear to show us the way. 
_ Dayid therefore says, that although men know not what is 
_ right, and what they ought to choose, yet provided they 


! “ Ne scachans lequel prendre.”—Fr. 


428 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXV. 


submit to God with pious docility of mind, and are willing 
to follow him, he will always manifest himself towards them 
as a sure and faithful guide. As, however, the fear of 
God is not naturally in us, it were foolish for any man to 
argue from this place, that God does not begin to take 
care of men until, by their own previous efforts, they insi- 
nuate themselves into his favour, that he may aid them in 
their pious endeavours. David has just declared, that this 
grace comes directly from God, when he says that God 
teaches the transgressors: and now he adds, in the second 
place, that after men have once been subdued and moulded 
to meekness of spirit, God still takes them under his charge, 
guiding and directing them till they are able, by the illumi- 
nation of the Holy Spirit, to know what is their duty. 


13. His soul shall dwell in good. If the supreme felicity of 
man consists in undertaking or attempting nothing except 
by the warrant of God, it follows that it is also a high and 
incomparable benefit to have him for our conductor and guide 
through life, that we may never go astray. But, in addition 
to this, an earthly blessing is here promised, in which the 
fruit of the preceding grace is distinctly shown, as Paul also 
teaches, (1 Tim. iv. 8,) “Godliness is profitable unto all 
things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that 
which is to come.” The sum is, that those who truly serve 
God are not only blessed as to spiritual things, but are also 
blessed by him as to their condition in the present life. It 
is indeed true, that God does not always deal with them 
according to their desires, and that the blessings which they 
would wish do not always flow in a certain and uniform 
manner. On the contrary, it often happens that they are 
tossed with sickness and trouble, whilst the wicked enjoy 
prosperity. But we must know, that as often*as God with- 
draws his blessing from his own people, it is for the pur- 
pose of awakening them to a sense of their condition, and 
discovering to them how far removed they still are from the 
perfect fear of God. And yet, in so far as it is expedient 
for them, they now enjoy the blessings of God, so that, in 
comparison of worldly men, and the despisers of God, they 


i 


1 


| 





PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 429 


are truly happy and blessed, because, even in their greatest 
poverty, they never lose the assurance that God is present 
with them; and being sustained by this consolation, they 
enjoy peace and tranquillity of mind. It is indeed true, 
that all our miseries proceed from this one source—that 
by our sins we prevent the divine blessing from flowing 
down in a uniform course upon us; and yet, amidst such 
a state of confusion, his grace never ceases to shine forth, 
so that the condition of the godly is always better than that 
of others : for although they are not satiated with good things, 
yet they are continually made to experience a sense of the 
fatherly favour of God. And to this I am willing to refer 
the word soul, namely, that, in the reception of the gifts of 
God, they do not devour them without feeling a sense of 
their sweetness, but really relish them, so that the smallest 
competency is of more avail to satisfy them than the great- 
est abundance is to satisfy the ungodly. Thus, according 
as every man is contented with his condition, and cheerfully 
cherishes a spirit of patience and tranquillity, his soul is said 
to dwell in good. Some interpreters apply this word to dwell or 
abide to the time of death; but this interpretation is more 
subtle than solid. The inspired penman rather speaks, as we 
have already said, of the condition of the present life. He 
adds, in the second place, by way of illustration, that the 
posterity of the faithful shall inherit the land ;? and from this 


it follows, that God continues to extend his favour towards 


them. Hence we may again infer, that the death of God’s 
servants does not imply their utter destruction, and that 
they do not cease to exist when they pass out of this world, 
but continue to live for ever. It would be absurd to suppose 
that God would totally deprive of life those for whose sake 
he does good even to others. As to what is here said, that 


1 Horsley refers the words to the blessedness of a future state. He 
reads, “* His soul shall rest in bliss ;” and has the following note :—‘ sn, 
pernoctavit. The words seem to allude to the happy state of the good 
man’s departed soul, while his posterity prosper in the present world.” 

2 That is, the land of Canaan, which God promised to perpetuate to the 
obedient Israelites and their posterity. ‘ It was ercsstoed Gat given,” says 
Poole, ‘ as an earnest of the whole covenant of grace and all its promises, 
and, therefore, is synecdochically put for all of them. The sense is, his seed 
shall be blessed.” 


430 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXY. 


the children of the saints shall inherit the land, it has been 
touched upon elsewhere, and it will be shown still more fully 
on the thirty-seventh Psalm, in what respects, and how this 
is accomplished. 


14. The counsel of Jehovah.. The Psalmist here confirms 


what he had just said in a preceding verse, namely, that God 
will faithfully discharge the office of a teacher and master to 
all the godly ; and, after his usual manner, he repeats the 
same sentiment twice in the same verse: for the covenant of 
God is nothing else than his secret or counsel. By the use of 
the term secret, he means to magnify and extol the excellency 
of the doctrine which is revealed to us in the law of God. 
However much worldly men, through the pride and haughti- 
ness of their hearts, despise Moses and the prophets, the faith- 
ful nevertheless acknowledge, that in the doctrine which they 
contain, the secrets of heaven, which far surpass the compre- 
hension of man, are revealed and unfolded. | Whoever, there- 
fore, desires to derive instruction from the law, let him regard 
with reverence and esteem the doctrine which it contains. 
We are, farther, ‘by this place admonished to cultivate the 
graces of meekness and humility, lest, in reliance upon our 
own wisdom, or trusting to our own understanding, we should 
attempt, by our own efforts, to comprehend those mysteries 
and secrets, the knowledge of which David here declares to 
be the prerogative of God alone. Again, since the fear of 
the Lord is said to be the beginning, and as it were the way 
that leads to a right understanding of his will, (Ps. exi. 10,) 
according as any one desires to increase in faith, so also let 
him endeavour to advance in the fear of the Lord. Moreover, 
when piety reigns in the heart, we need have no fear of losing 
our labour in seeking God. It is indeed true, that the cove- 
nant of God is a secret which far exceeds human comprehen- 
sion ; but as we know that he does not in vain enjoin us to seek 
him, we may rest assured that all those who endeavour to serve 
him with an upright desire will be brought, by the teaching 
of the Holy Spirit, to the knowledge of that heavenly wisdom 
which is appointed for their salvation. But, in the meantime, 


David indirectly rebukes those who falsely and groundlessly — 





PSALM XXYV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 431 


boast that they are interested in the covenant of God, while 
they rest merely in the letter of the law, and have no saving 
impressions of the fear of God. God, it is true, addresses 
his word indiscriminately to the righteous and the wicked ; 
but men do not comprehend it, unless they have sincere 
piety; just as Isaiah, chap. xxix. 11, says, that as regards 
the ungodly, the law is like “a book that is sealed.” And, 
therefore, it is no wonder that there is here made a distinc- 
tion between those who truly serve God, and to whom he 
makes known his secret, and the wicked or hypocrites. But 
when we see David in this confidence coming boldly to the 
school of God, and leading others along with him, let us know, 
as he clearly shows, that it is a wicked and hateful invention 
to attempt to deprive the common people of the Holy Scrip- 
tures, under the pretence of their being a hidden mystery ; as 
if all who fear him from the heart, whatever their state or 
condition in other respects may be, were not expressly called 
to the knowledge of God’s covenant. 


15. Mine eyes are continually towards Jehovah. David here 
speaks of his own faith, and of its perseverance, not in the way 

_ of boasting, but to encourage himself in the hope of obtaining 
~ his requests, so that he might give himself the more readily 
and cheerfully to prayer. As the promise is made to all who 
trust in God, that they shall not be disappointed of their hope, 

_ and that they shall never be put to shame, the saints often 
_ make this their shield of defence. Meanwhile, David shows 
“to others, by his own example, the right manner of prayer, 
telling them that they should endeavour to keep their thoughts 
fixed upon God. As the sense of sight is very quick, and exer- 
cises an entire influence over the whole frame, it is no uncom- 
mon thing to find all the affections denoted by the term eyes. 
The reason which immediately follows shows still more plainly, 
that in the mind of David hope was associated with desire ; as 

_ if he had said, That in resting his confidence in the help of 
_ God, he did so, not in doubt or uncertainty, but because he 
_ was persuaded that he would be his deliverer. The pronoun 
_ He, it ought to be observed, is also emphatic. It shows that 
_ Dayid did not gaze around him in every direction, after the 


432 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXV. 


manner of those who, being in uncertainty, devise for them- 
selves various methods of deliverance and salvation, but that 
he was contented with God alone. 


16. Have respect unto me, and pity me, for I am alone and poor. 

17. The troubles of my heart are enlarged ; bring thou me out 
of my distresses. 

18. Look upon mine affiction and my trouble, and take away 
all my sins. 

19. Behold mine enemies, for they are increased ; and_they hate 
me with a violent? hatred. 

20. Preserve my soul, and deliver me, that I may not be ashamed ; 
for I have put my trust in thee. 


21. Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I have waited | 


upon thee. 
22. Do thou, O God ! redeem Israel from all his troubles. 


16. Have respect unto me. As the flesh is ever ready 
to suggest to our minds that God has forgotten us, when 
he ceases to manifest his power in aiding us, David here 
follows the order which nature dictates, in asking God to 
have respect unto him, as if he had altogether neglected 
him before. Now, it appears to me that the words might be 
explained thus: Have respect unto me, in order to pity me. 
He accounts it at once the cause and the source of his 
salvation to be regarded of God; and then he adds the effect 
of it: for as soon as God, of his own good’ pleasure, shall 
vouchsafe to regard us, his hand also will be ready to help 
us. Again, in order to excite the compassion of God, he 
sets forth his own misery, expressly stating that he is alone, 
that is to say, solitary ;* and then he describes himself as poor. 
There can be no doubt that, in speaking thus, he alludes to 
the promises in which God declares that he will be always 
present with the afflicted and oppressed, to aid and help them. 


17. The troubles of my heart are enlarged. In this verse — 


1 “Mon souci et travail.”"—F’r. marg. “My care and labour.” 

2 « C'est, cruelle.”—Note, Fr. marg. ‘“ That is, cruel.” 

3 The Hebrew word here used is why, yachid, unus, one, which is not 
unfrequently put, as in this place, for a solitary and desolate person. David 
was now deserted, desolate, and destitute of all help. The word is used 
in the same sense in Ps. xxii. 20, and xxxv. 17. 


PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 433 


he acknowledges not only that he had to contend outwardly 
with his enemies and the troubles which they occasioned 
him, but that he was also afflicted inwardly with sorrow and 
anguish of heart. It is also necessary to observe the manner 
of expression which he here employs, and by which he inti- 
mates that the weight and number of his trials had accumu- 
lated to such an extent that they filled his whole heart, even as 
a flood of waters bursting every barrier, and extending far and 
wide, covers a whole country. Now, when we see that the 
heart of David had sometimes been wholly filled with anguish, 
we need no longer wonder if at times the violence of temp- 
tation overwhelm us; but let us ask with David, that even 
whilst we are as it were at the point of despair, God would 
succour us. 


18. Look upon mine affliction. By repeating these com- 
plaints so frequently, he plainly shows that the calamities 
with which he was assailed were not some slight and trivial 
evils. And this ought to be carefully marked by us, so that 
when trials and afflictions shall have been measured out to us 
after the same manner, we may be enabled to lift up our souls 
to God in prayer; for the Holy Spirit has set before our 
view this representation, that our minds may not fail us 
under the multitude or weight of afflictions. But in order 
to obtain an alleviation of these miseries, David again prays 
that his sins may be pardoned, recalling to his recollection 
what he had already stated, that he could not expect to 
enjoy the divine favour, unless he were first reconciled to 
God by receiving a free pardon. And, indeed, they are very 
insensible who, contented with deliverance from bodily afflic- 
tion, do not search out the evils of their own hearts, that is 
to say, their sins, but as much as in them lies rather desire 
to have them buried in oblivion. To find a remedy, there- 
fore, to his cares and sorrows, David begins by imploring the 
remission of his sins, because, so long as God is angry with 
us, it must necessarily follow, that all our affairs shall come 
to an unhappy termination ; and he has always just ground of 
displeasure against us so long as our sins continue, that is to 

VOL. L 25 


434 . COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXV. 


say, until he pardons them.’ And although the Lord has 
various ends in view in bringing his people under the cross, 
yet we ought to hold fast the principle, that as often as God 
afflicts us, we are called to examine our own hearts, and 
pases iy to seek, reconciliation with him, 9.4 © up 

19. Behold mine enemies. In this verse oDavid inenglital of 
the number and cruelty of his enemies, because the more the 
people of God are oppressed, the more is he inclined to aid 
them ; and in proportiun to the magnitude of the danger by 
which they are surrounded, he assists them the more power- 
fully. The words, hatred of violence,’ are here to be under- 
stood of a cruel and sanguinary hatred. Now, as the rage 
of David’s enemies was so great, that nothing short of his 
death would satisfy them, he calls upon God to become the 
guardian and protector of his life; and from this it may be 
inferred, as I have already said, that he was now placed in 
extreme danger... The clause which immediately follows, 
‘That I may notbe ashamed, may be-understood in two ways. 
Some retain the future tense, J shall not: be ashamed, as if 
David felt assured that he was already heard by God, and as 
the reward of. his: hope promised. himself a gracious answer 
to his ‘prayers... I am rather inclined. to the: opposite opinion— 
to consider these words as: still forming apart of his’ prayer. 
The amount of what is stated therefore is, that:as he ‘trusts 
in God, he prays that the: hope of salvation which» he had 
formed might not be disappointed. There is nothing better 
fitted to impart a holy ardour to our: prayers, than when we 
are able to'testify with sincerity of heart: that we confide in 
God. And, therefore, it behoves us to.ask with so much the 
greater care, that he would increase our hope: when it is small, 
awaken it when it is dormant, confirm it when it is wavering, 
strengthen it when it is weak, and that he would even raise 
it up when it is overthrown, 0 ne em 


21. Let integrity and uprightness preserve me. Some are of 


' “ Cependant que nos pechez demeurent c’est a dire j jusques d ce qu'il 
les pardonne.” 
* The Hebrew words literally rendered are, ‘‘ With hatred of violence.” 


PSALM XXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 435 


opinion, that in these. words David simply prays that he may 
be preserved from all mischief, on the ground that he had con- 
ducted himself inoffensiyely towards others, and had abstain- 
ed from all deceit and.violence, Others make the words to 
contain a twofold subject, of prayer, and understand them as 
including at the same time a desire that God would. bestow 

upon him a sincere and upright purpose of heart; and all 
this lest he should break forth into-revenge; and other unlaw- 
ful means of preserving his life.. ‘Thus the ‘meaning would 
be: Lord, although my: flesh may urge me to seek relief 
from.whatever quarter it may appear, and mine enemies also 
may constrain me to it by their importunity, yet do thou sub- 
due within me every sinful passion, and every perverse desire, 
so that.I may. always exercise over my mind a pure and entire 
control; and. let integrity and; uprightness suffice .as .two 
powerful means of preserving me. We prefer the first inter- 
pretation, because: he immediately subjoins a proof of his 
integrity. Whosoever, waits upon God: with a: meek: and 
quiet. spirit, will. rather, suffer! any thing which men: can 
inflict, than allow himself to contend unrighteously with his 
enemies. In my opinion, therefore, David protests that such 
was the rectitude of his behaviour amongst men, that the per~ 
secution of his.enemies was wholly unmerited and: unjust 
and being conscious of haying.given no offetice to any; he 
ealls upon God. as the protector of his inndcénce.' But as he 
has already, im three different places, acknowledged that he 
was justly visited with affliction, it may seem strange that 
he should, now glory in his integrity. This apparent incon- 
sistency has already been explained i in another: place, where 
we. have shown that the saints, in respect of themselves, 
always come into the presence of God with humility, implor- 
ing his forgiveness : and yet this does not prevent them from 
setting forth before him the goodness of their cause, and the 
justice of their claims. At the same time, in saying that he 
trusted in God, he only states what indeed is essentially 
necessary ; for, in undertaking our defence, it is not enough 
that we have justice on our side, unless depending upon his 
promises, we rely with confidence upon his protection. It 
often happens, that men of firmness and prudence, eyen when 


436 . COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXV. 


their cause is good, do not always succeed in its defence, 
because they confide in their own understanding, or rely upon 
fortune. In order, therefore, that God may become the pro- 
tector and defender of our innocence, let us first conduct 
ourselves uprightly and innocently towards our enemies, and 
then commit ourselves entirely to his protection. 


22. Do thou, O God! redeem Israel. By this conclusion 
David shows of what character the enemies were of whom 
he complained. From this it would appear that they were 
domestic enemies, who, like some disease raging within the 
bowels, were now the cause of trouble and vexation to the 
people of God. By the word redeem, which he here employs, 
we may infer that the Church was at that time oppressed 
with hard bondage; and, therefore, I have no doubt that 
in this psalm he alludes to Saul and others who reigned 
with him in a tyrannical manner. At the same time, he 
shows that he has respect not merely to his own benefit, 
but that he comprehends in his prayer the state of the whole 
realm, just as the mutual communion and connection which 
subsist among the saints require that every individual, deep- 
ly affected by a sense of the public calamities which befall the 
Church at large, should unite with all the others in lamentation 
before God. This contributed in no small degree to con- 
firm the faith of David, when, regarding himself as in all 
things connected with the whole body of the faithful, he con- 
sidered that all the afflictions and wrongs which he endured 
were common to himself with them. And we ought to regard 
it as of the greatest importance, that in accordance with this 
rule, every one of us, in bewailing his private miseries and 
trials, should extend his desires and prayers to the whole 
Church. 


PSALM XXVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 437 


PSALM XXVI. 


This psalm, for the most part, is similar to the preceding. The prophet, 
oppressed with numerous wrongs, and finding no succour in the world, 
implores the aid of God, entreating him to undertake the cause of a 
man unrighteously afflicted, and to assert his innocence. And as his 
contest was with hypocrites, he appeals to the judgment of God, 
sharply reproving them for making a false profession of God’s name. 
Tn the conclusion, as if he had obtained his wish, he promises a sacri- 
fice of praise to God for his deliverance. 


g A Psalm of David. 


1. Judge me, O Jehovah! because I have walked in mine in- 
tegrity, and trusted in Jehovah, I shall not stumble. 
2. Prove me, O Jehovah! and try me; search my reins and my 


heart. 

3. For thy goodness is before mine eyes: I have therefore 
walked in thy truth. 

4. I have not sat with vain men, neither will I walk with deceit- 
Sul men, 


1. Judge me, O Jehovah! I have just said, that David 
betakes himself to the judgment of God, because he found 
neither equity nor humanity among men. The Hebrew 
word which is rendered to judge, signifies to undertake the 
cognisance of a cause. The meaning here, therefore, is as 
if David called upon God to be the defender of his right. 
When God leaves us for a time to the injuries and petu- 
lance of our enemies, he seems to neglect our cause; but 
when he restrains them from assailing us at their pleasure, 
he clearly demonstrates that the defence of our cause is 
the object of his care. Let us, therefore, learn from the 
example of David, when we are destitute of man’s aid, to 

1 Hammond renders the original word, “ Plead for, or defend me ;” and 
Green, ‘‘ Vindicate me.” The word denotes both the act of a judge and 
of an advocate. This last view agrees very well with the scope of the 


psalm, which, from the strong assertions of innocence with which it abounds, 
appears to have been written by David in vindication of himself from 


various crimes which had been alleged against him ; although the parti- 
cular events to which it refers are not indheated. ; ¥ 


438 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVI. 


have recourse to the judgment-seat of God, and to rely 
upon his protection. The clause which follows is variously 
explained by interpreters. Some read it in connection 
with the first clause, Judge me, O Jehovah! because I have 
walked in mine integrity ; but others refer it to the last clause, 
Because I have walked in mine integrity, therefore I shall not 
stumble. Yn my opinion, it may be properly connected with 
both. As it is the proper work of God to maintain and 
defend righteous, causes, the Psalmist, in constituting him his 
defender, summons him as the witness of his integrity and 
trust, and thus conceives the hope of obtaining his aid. Tf, 
on the other hand, any one thinks that the clauses should be 
separated, it seems most probable that this sentence, Judge 
me, O Lord! should be read by itself; and then that the 
second prayer should follow, that God would not allow him to 
stumble, because he had behaved himself inoffensively and up- 
rightly, &c.. But there is ‘a force in the possessive pronoun 
my, which interpreters have overlooked. For David does not 
simply aver that he had: been upright, but*that he’ had con- 
stantly proceeded in an upright course, without being driven 
from his purpose, however ‘powerful the devices by which he 
had been assailed. When wicked men attack us with a view 
to overwhelm us, either by force or fraud, we know how 
difficult it.is to preserve always the same fortitude: We 
place our hope of victory in endeavouring resolutely and 
vigorously to oppose force to force, and art to art. And this 
is a temptation which so much the more affects honest and 
steady men, who are otherwise zealous to do well, when the 
cruelty of their enemies compels them to turn aside from the 
right path. Let us, therefore, learn from the example of 
David, even when an opportunity of injuring our enemies’ is 
offered us, and when by various methods they force and 
provoke us, to remain firm in our course, and not suffer our- 
selyes to be diverted in any manner from’ pale the 
path of our integrity. 


2. Prove me, O Jehovah ! The more that David shied . 


1 The primary signification of the Hebrew word mx, tsaraph, is to 
as the refiner tries his gold by dissolving and melting i. In this ps 
is used in Ps. lxvi. 10, ‘“* Thou hast tried us as silver is tried,” 


PSALM XXVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 439 


himself. basely and undeseryedly pursued with calumnies, 
the more powerfully was he excited by the vehemence of his 
grief fearlessly to assert his rectitude. Nor does he merely 
clear himself of outward:sins ;. he glories also in the upright- 
ness of his heart, and the purity of its affections, tacitly 
comparing himself, at the same. time, with his enemies. As 
they were gross:hypocrites, proudly boasting of their rever- 
ence for God, he lays open before him their shameless effron- 
tery and’ hardihood.. » This _ protestation, too; shows how 

acquainted: he» was with. himself, when‘ he durst 
offer to submit the whole recesses of his heart to the exami- 
nation of God: It is to be observed, however, that. it was 
the wickedness of his enemies which forced him to commend 
himself so much. . Had he not been unjustly condemned by 
men; he would haye humbly deprecated such an exaniination, 
as he well: kmew;:notwithstanding his: zeal to act aright, that 
he was far from perfection. But when he felt himself to be 
falsely accused, the injustice and cruelty of men emboldened 
him to appeal:to God’s judgment-seat without hesitation. 
And as he knew that an external appearance of innocence 
was of no avail there, he brings forward the honest upright- 
ness of his heart.. ‘The distinction which some make here, 
that the heart signifies the higher affections, and the reins 
those that are sensual (as they term them) and more gross, 
is more subtle than solid. We know that the Hebrews un- 
derstood by the term reins that which is most secret in men. 
David, therefore, conscious of his innocence, offers the whole 
man to the examination of God; not.like careless, or rather 
stupid men, who, flattering themselves, imagine that they will 
deceive God with their pretences. » It is evident, on the con- 
trary, that he had honestly and thoroughly searched himself, 
before he presented himself with such confidence in the divine 
presence. And this we must. especially bear in mind, if we 
would desire to obtain the approbation of God, that when 
unjustly persecuted, we must not only abstain from retalia- 
tion, but also MEY in a right spirit. 


3. For thy ‘poodnenat is before mine eyes. This verse may be 
viewed as one sentence, or divided into two parts, but with 


440 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVI. 


almost the same sense. If the former reading is adopted, 
both the verbs will be emphatic, after this manner: “ Because 
thy goodness, O Lord, has been ever before mine eyes, and I 
have trusted in thy faithfulness, I have restrained all wicked 
lusts in my heart, lest, provoked by the malice of mine enemies, 
I should be forced to retaliate.” By this interpretation there 
would be the rendering of a cause. The other exposition, also, 
is not unsuitable, namely, “ Because thy goodness has been 
before mine eyes, I have walked in the truth which thou com- 
mandest.” In this case the conjunction, as is common among 
the Hebrews, is superfluous. But although this exposition 
is allied to the former, I would rather prefer one less re- 
mote from the words. As it is a rare and difficult virtue, not 
only to refrain one’s self from wicked actions, when greatly 
tempted thereto, but also to preserve integrity of heart; the 
prophet declares in what manner he pursued his course in 
the midst of such powerful temptations, telling us that it was 
by setting the goodness of God, which so carefully preserves 
his servants, before his eyes, lest, declining to evil practices, 
he might deprive himself of his protection; and by confiding 
in his faithfulness, he possessed his soul in patience, firmly 
persuaded that God would never forsake his faithful people 
who trusted in him. And certainly, had he not relied upon 
the goodness of God, he could not have so constantly pro- 
secuted the path of integrity amidst such numerous and such 
severe assaults. It is, indeed, a remarkable difference be- 
tween the children of God and worldly men, that the former, 
in the hope of a favourable issue at the Lord’s hand, rely 
upon his word, and are not driven by restlessness to mischie- 
vous practices ; while the latter, although they maintain a 
good cause, yet because they are ignorant of the providence 
of God, are hurried hither and thither ; follow unlawful coun- 
sels ; betake themselves to craftiness ; and, in short, have no 
other object than to overcome evil with evil. Whence, accord- 
ingly, their miserable and sorrowful, and often their tragical 
ends, but because, despising the favour of God, they give 
themselves up to cunning and deceit? In short, David was 
steady in preserving his uprightness, because he had resolved 
that God should be his guide. In the first place, therefore, 


PSALM XXVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 441 


he mentions his goodness, and afterwards he adds, his truth, 
because his goodness, which enables us to walk with unyielding 
courage in the midst of all temptations, is only known to us 


4. Ihave not sat with vain men. He again declares the very 
great dissimilarity which existed between him and his adver- 
saries. For the contrast is always to be observed, that wicked 
men, by all the harm and mischief they wrought against him, 
could never drive him from the path of rectitude. This verse 
might likewise be joined with the former, as if completing the 
sentence, in this way, That David, by confiding in the favour 
of God, had withdrawn himself from deceivers. The words, 
sitting and walking, denote sharing in counsel and fellowship in 
working, according to what is said in the first psalm. David 
denies that he had any intercourse with vain and deceitful 
men. And certainly the best remedy to recall and save us from 
the assembly of the wicked is to fix our eyes upon God’s 
goodness ; for he who walks in the confidence of God’s pro- 
tection, committing all events to his providence, will never 
imitate their deceitfulness. Those whom he denominates in 
the first clause, men of vanity, he soon after terms mndy, 
. naitilamim, that is, close and wrapped up in craftiness.' For in 
this consists the vanity of dissimulation, that deceitful men 
conceal in their hearts another thing than that which their 
tongues declare. It is, however, absurd to derive this word 
from , alam, to play, for it is out of place here to compare 
their impostures to children’s play. I confess, indeed, that 
those who give themselves to craftiness are mockers ; but 
why have recourse to such a forced exposition, when it is 
plain that the word shows the source from which all lying 
and deceit proceed? Thus faith, which steadily looks to 
God’s promises, is aptly opposed to all the crooked and 
iniquitous counsels in which unbelief involves us as often as 
we ascribe not proper honour to the guardianship of God. 
David teaches, by his own example, that we have not the 

1 Horsley renders the word, ‘* Those who seek concealment.” In like 


manner, the Chaldee paraphrases it, “They that hide themselves that they 
may do evil.” 


442 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVI. 


slightest cause to fear that our integrity will make us.a prey 
to the ungodly, when God promises us safety under his hand. 
The children of God, indeed, are prudent, but their prudence 
is altogether different from that of the flesh. Under the 
guidance and government of the Holy Spirit, they take every 
necessary precaution against snares, but in such a manner as 
not to practise any craftiness. | wesils dents 


5. I hate the assembly of transgressors, and I will not sit with 
_. the wicked. 
6. I will wash my hands in purity,’ and will encompass thine 
altar, O Jehovah ! | 
7. That I may make men to hear the ‘voice of thy praise, and tell | 
them of all thy wonderful works. 


5. I hate the assembly. The Psalmist protiatengell 
greatly he abhorred the ungodly. Formerly he denied that he 
had any fellowship with them; now he still more explicitly 
declares that he fled from their company with loathing, for that 
is the meaning of the phrase, J hate. It is indeed true, that 
the wicked are everywhere hated; but how few withdraw them- 
selves from them, that they may not imitate their vices ! David 
asserts both; he tells us that he hated their society, and that 
he had no communion with them, from which it appears that 
he warred not so much with their persons as with their eyil 
doings. He mentions also as another qualification, that he 
shunned the wicked in such a manner as-not on that account 
to forsake the congregation of God, or withdraw himself from 
the company of thosé with whom he was commanded by 
divine appointment to associate. Many err in this way 
grievously ; imagining when they see the evil mingled with 
the good, that they will be infected with pollution, unless 
they immediately withdraw themselves from the whole con- 
gregation. This preciseness drove the Donatists of old, 
and prior to them the Cathari and the Novatians, into mis- 
chievous schisms. In our own times, too, the Anabaptists, 
from a similar conceit, have separated themselves from the 
sacred assemblies, because they reckoned them not so free 
from all defilement as could have been wished. Moreover, 


!  Jnnocence.”—Fr. marg 


PSALM XXVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 443 


the Donatists made themselves a laughing-stock in a certain 
process, by tenaciously clinging to mere words. When an 
‘assembly was held to”settle dissensions, and they were in- 
yited by the “president of the meeting, with a view to do 
honour to them, to take a seat, they replied, they would 
stand, because it was. not lawful to “ sit with the wicked.” 
Why» then, wittily replied | ‘Augustine; did your conscience 
permit ‘you to come in amongst 'us? for the one is written 
as well as the other, Iwill not go in to’ the wiched, neither will 
I sit: with theungodly. David, therefore, prudently mode- 
rates his zeal;and while separating himself from the ungodly, 
ceases Not to frequent the temple, as the divine command- 
ment and the order prescribed in the law required, When 
he denominates them the assembly of the ungodly, we may 
unquestionably conclude; that’ their number was not few; 
nay, itis probable that they flaunted about at that time, as if 
they alone were exalted above the people of God, and were 
lords over them: yet this did not prevent David from com- 
ing as usual to the sacrifices. Public care, indeed, is to 
beused that the Church be not defiled by such wickedness, 
and every man ought privately to endeavour, in his own 
place, that his remissness and forbearance do not cherish the 
disorders which these vices occasion. Although, however, 
this strictness should not’ be exercised with that care which 
is necessary, there is nothing in this to hinder any of the 
faithful from piously and holily remaining in the fellowship 
of the Church. It is to be observed, in the meantime, that 
what retained David, was his communion with God and with 


sacred things. 


6. Iwill wash my hands in purity. Referring, in these words, 
to the ordinary use of the sacrifices, he makes a distinction 
between himself and those who professed to offer the same 
divine worship, and thrust themselves forward in the services 
of the sanctuary, as if they alone had the sole right to per- 
form them. As David, therefore, and these hypocrites were 
one in this respect, that they entered the sanctuary, and sur- 
rounded the sacred altar together, he proceeds to show that 
he was a true worshipper, declaring, that he not only dili- 
‘gently attended to the external rites, but came to worship 


444 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVI. 


God with unfeigned devotion. It is obvious that he alludes 
to the solemn rite of washing which was practised under the 
law.’ He, accordingly, reproves the gross superstition of 
hypocrites, who, in seeking only the purification of water, 
neglected true purification ; whereas it was God's design, in 
the appointment of the outward sign, to put men in mind 
of their inward pollution, and thus to encourage them to 
repentance. The outward washing alone, instead of profit- 
ing hypocrites, kept them at a greater distance from God. 
When the Psalmist, therefore, says, J will wash my hands in 
innocence, he intimates that they only gather more pollution 
and filth by their washings. The Hebrew word }”p3, nik- 
kayon, signifies the cleanness of any thing, and is figuratively — 
used for znnocence. We thus see, that as hypocrites derive no 
moral purity whatever from their washings, David mocks at 
the labour with which they vainly toil and torment themselves 
in such rites. However high, therefore, the wicked may be 
exalted in the Church, and though crowds of them should 
fill our sanctuaries, let us, after the example of David, cele- 
brate the outward profession of our faith in such a manner as 
not deceitfully to substitute its external rites in the room of 
true devotion. Thus shall we be pure and free from all stain 
of wickedness. Moreover, as the people were not permitted 
to touch the altar, David uses the word encompass.” 


7. That I may make men to hear, &c. In these words, he 
shows that he referred the sacrifices to their proper use 


1 The washing of the hands in solemn protestation of innocence, on 
particular occasions, was enjoined by the Mosaic ritual, and was common 
among the Jews, Deut, xxi. 6,7. It was in common use among them 
before prayer; and the priests, in particular, were not to perform any 
sacred office in the sanctuary until they had poured water from the 
laver, which was set in the temple for that purpose, and washed their hands, 
Exod. xl. 30-33. 

2 Mudge conjectures that the expression, encompass, is probably taken 
from the custom of forming a ring round the altar at the time of worship. 
And Goodwyn informs us, that at the feast of tabernacles the people, on 
the seventh day, encompassed the altar seven times, carrying branches of 
palm trees in their hands in remembrance of the ov w of Jericho, 
and singing hosannas.—Moses and Aaron, p. 132. David, however, may 
refer to the practice of the priests, who, when they offered sacrifices, went 
round about the altar ; and his meaning may simply be, that as the priests 
first washed their hands, and then performed their sacred office at the 
altar; so he deeply felt the necessity of personal purity, in order to his 
engaging in the service of God. 


ads 


PSALM XXVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 445 


and design, which hypocrites were far from doing. They 
neither know, nor do they consider, for what purpose God 
appointed the services of worship, but think it sufficient to 
thrust themselves into the divine presence with the pomp 
and form of their dissimulation. David, therefore, wishing 
to distinguish spiritual worship from that which is fictitious 
and counterfeit, affirms that he came into the sanctuary to set 
forth the praise of God’s name. There is, however, a synec- 
doche in his words, as only one kind of worship is mentioned, 
although, in offering the sacrifices, the exercise of repent- 
ance and faith was required, as well as the giving of thanks. 
But as the ultimate design of the sacrifices, or at least their 
principal object, was to celebrate the goodness of God in 
thus acknowledging his blessings, there was no impropriety 
in comprehending the other parts of worship under this. 
Thus, in Ps. 1. 14, the sacrifice of praise is preferred to all 
external ceremonies, as if the whole of devotion consisted in 
it alone, Likewise in Ps. cxvi. 12, it is said, “ What shall I 
render unto the Lord for all his benefits ? I will take the cup 
of salvation, and call upon the name of the Lord.” More- 
over, that he may the better commend the acknowledged 


_ power of God, and more impressively extol his benefits, 


David employs the phrase wondrous ; as if he had said, that 
it was in no ordinary way that God had helped him. 


8. O Jehovah! I have loved the habitation of thy house,’ and 
the dwelling-place of thy glory. : 
9. Gather not my soul with wicked men, nor my life with bloody 
men.? 
10. For in their hands is maliciousness, and their right hand is 
full of bribes. 
11. But I will walk in mine integrity : redeem me, and be mer- 


ciful to me. 


8. O Jehovah! I have loved, §c. In this verse he confirms 
what he had said before, that he came not into the sanctuary 


_ in a careless manner, but with serious devotion. Irreligious 


__. ! The habitation of thy house—a Hebraism for the house which thou in- 
_ habitest. This name was given to the tabernacle, 1 Sam. ii. 29, $2, and 
_ afterwards to Solomon’s temple, 2 Chron. xxxvi. 15. 


2 Heb. men of blood. See Psalm v. 7. 


446 . COMMENTARY UPON | PSALM XXVI. 


men, although they often resort to the sacred assemblies, fre- 
quent them merely as lurking places, where they may escape 
the eye of God: On the contrary, the truly pious and pure in 
heart resort to them, not for the sake of vain ostentation, but 
as they are sincerely bent on seeking God, they willingly 
and affectionately employ the helps’ which he there affords 
them ; and the advantage which they derive from them creates 
love to them in their hearts, and longings after them. This 
declaration farther shows, that however David excelled 
others in faith, yet he was not without fear lest the. violence: 
of his enemies might deprive him-of the ordinary means of 
instruction which God had conferred on: his Church: He 
felt his need of the Church’s common discipline and order, 
and he therefore anxiously laboured to retain his enjoyment 
of them. From this we infer the impious pride of those who 
look, with contempt on the services of religion ‘as unnecessary, 
although David himself) could: not’ live withoutthem. An- 
other consideration; indeed, existed in those days, I confess, 
while the law, like a’ schoolmaster, held the-ancient people im 
a state of servitude compared with ‘ours. - Our-case, however, 
is one with theirs in ‘this\ respect, that the weakness of our 
faith requires help as well as theirs... And as God for this 
purpose has appointed: the sacraments, as well as the whole 
order of the Church, woe to the pride of those who recklessly 
desert the services which we perceive to have been held in 
such high esteem by the pious servants of God. "The Hebrew 
word pe, me-on, according to some, is derived from a word! 
which signifies an eye; and they translate it comeliness, or 
appearance. ‘This is the translation of the Septuagint. 2 But 
as the word is almost every where used to signify a dwelling- 

place, which is more simple, I prefer to retain. it. , The sane- 
tuary is called God’s house, and the dwelling-place of his glory ; 
and we know how frequently expressions of this kind are 
employed in Scripture to bear’ testimony to the’ "presence of 
God. Not that God’ cither ‘dwelt’ in a tent, or wished to 
confine the minds of his péople to earthly symbols; but it 
was needful to remind the faithful of God’s present goodness, 


1 Namely, py, 
2 ‘The word which i it employs is ivwelwee. 


mF “3 id 


PSALM XXVI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 447 


that they might not think they sought him in vain, as we 
have: elsewhere already said. Now, that God’s glory may 
dwell among us, it is mecessary that a lively image of it 
should shine forth in word and sacraments. From this it 
follows, that the temples which are reckoned such among 
re eee Catan : 


- ade Gather not my soul with wicked men. Havliigaow affirm- 

ed his innocence, he has recourse again to prayer, and calls 
upon God to defend him. . At first sight, indeed, it appears 
strange to pray that God would not involve a righteous man 
in the same destruction with the wicked; but God, with pater- 
nal indulgence, allows this freedom in prayer, that his people 
may themselves in this way correct their anxieties, and 
overcome the fears with which they are tempted. David, 
when he conceived this supplication, in order to free himself 
from anxiety and fear, placed before his eyes the righteous 
judgment of God, to whom nothing is more abhorrent than to 
mingle good and badtogether without distinction. The He- 
brew word FIDN, asaph, sometimes signifies to gather together, 
and sometimes fo destroy. In this place, I am of opinion it 


_ signifies to gather into a heap; as-was wont to be the case in 
_ alconfused slaughter... This was the objection stated by Abra~ 


ham, (Genz xviii. 25,) “That be far from thee to do after this 


_ manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked: and that the 
_ righteous should be.as' the wicked, that be far from thee.” 


Let us remember} therefore, that these forms of prayer are 


_ dictated by the Holy Spirit, in order that the faithful may 


unhesitatingly assure themselves that God still sits in mquisi- 
tion upon every man’s’case, in order to give righteous judg- 
ment at last. Inthe second clause, instead of the phrase, 
wicked men, he uses bloody men, amplifying what he had said. 
For although many wicked men rush not all at orice to mur- 
der, yet in process of time they harden themselves to cruelty ; 
nor does Satan allow them to rest ner Hey aor ge them 


7 into deeds of blood. 


. 20, Feri in thitr :Aamile is wicibelolaied “The Hebrew: word 
731, zimmah, signifies properly an inward stratagem, or device. 


448 : COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVI. 


But here it is not improperly applied to the hands, because 
David wished to intimate, that the wicked, of whom he 
was speaking, not only secretly imagined deceits, but also 
vigorously executed with their hands the malice which their 
hearts devised. When he farther says, Their right hands 
are full of bribes, we may infer from this, that it was not 
the common people whom he pointed out for observation, 
but the nobility themselves, who were most guilty of prac- 
tising this corruption. Although the common and baser sort 
of men may be hired for reward, and suborned as agents in 
wickedness, yet we know that bribes are offered chiefly to 
judges, and other great men who are in power; and we like- 
wise know, that at the time referred to here the worst of men 
bore sway. It was no wonder, therefore, that David com- 
plained that justice was exposed to sale. We are farther 
admonished by this expression, that those who delight in 
gifts can scarcely do otherwise than sell themselves to ini- 
quity. Nor is it in vain, unquestionably, that God declares 
that “ gifts blind the eyes of the wise, and pervert the hearts 
of the righteous,” (Deut. xvi. 19.) 


11. But Iwill walk in mine integrity. In this repetition 
there is to be remarked a circumstance which more clearly 
illustrates David’s righteousness ; namely, that, in the midst 
of so many temptations, he steadily held on his way. He 
saw many become suddenly rich by gifts, as we still see those 
who sit at the helm of affairs accumulating to themselves, in 
a very brief space, a great abundance of wealth, building 
sumptuous palaces, and extending their lands far and wide. 
As no allurements could induce him to imitate their example 
in this, he gave a proof of rare and heroic virtue. He there- 
fore affirms with truth, that although the world accounted 
them happy, he had not been seduced from his wonted inte- 
grity, that thus it might appear that he ascribed more to the 
providence of God than to evil practices. He, therefore, 
beseeches God to redeem him, because, being oppressed with 
wrongs, and tempted in various ways, he relied only on God, 
trusting that he would deliver him. From this we may con- 
clude, that he was at this time reduced to great straits. He 


PSALM XXVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 449 


adds, Be merciful to me, by which he shows that this deliver- 
ance flows from the grace of God, as its true source ; and we 
have already seen that the cause is often put for the effect. 


12. My foot hath stood in uprightness :' in the congregations will 
I bless thee, O Jehovah ! 


This verse may be explained in two ways. Some are of 
opinion that David declares how carefully he had studied up- 
rightness among men; but I rather think that he celebrates 
the grace of God towards him, and, at the same time, vows 
his gratitude. By the use of the metaphor, therefore, he tells 
us that he was preserved in safety. And as he knew that it 
was the hand of God alone which enabled him to stand, he 
therefore addresses himself to the exercise of praise and 
thanksgiving. Nor does he merely say, that he will acknow- 
ledge in private the goodness of God bestowed upon him, but 
in public also, that the assemblies of God’s people may be 
witnesses of it. It is highly necessary that every one should 
publicly celebrate his experience of the grace of God, as an 
example to others to confide in him.? 


PSALM XXVIII. 


In this psalm, David rehearses the desires and meditations with which he 
had exercised himself in the midst of his great dangers. The thanks- 
givings which he mingles with them show that it was composed after 
his deliverance. It is also probable that he repeats at once the prayers 
which had exercised his thoughts in his different meditations. Hence 
it is to be seen here with what invincible fortitude of soul the holy man 
was endued, that he might overcome the most grievous assaults of 
his enemies. His wonderful piety shines forth in this, that he wished 
to live for no other purpose than to serve God: nor could he be turned 
aside from this purpose by any anxiety or trouble. 


1“ Crest, en lieu — et droict ; c’est a dire, seur. "FY marg. ‘That 
is, in ap lain and strai ht ; that is to say, sure place.” 

au Quielle soit celebree : publiquement ; afin qu'elle serue d’exemple aux 
autres pour se confermer en Dieu.”—Fr. 


VOL. I. 2F 


450 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVIII. 


q A Psalm of David. 

1. Jehovah is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear ? Je- 
hovah is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid ? 

2. When the wicked caine upon me to eat up my flesh, when my 


oppressors and mine enemies came upon me, they stumbled 
and fell. 

3. Though armies should encamp against me, my heart shall 
not fear; though war should rise against me, in this will I 
be confident. 


1. Jehovah is my light. This commencement may be un- 
derstood as meaning that David, haying already experienced 
God’s mercy, publishes a testimony of his gratitude. But 
I rather incline to another meaning, namely, that, perceiv- 
ing the conflict he had to wage with the sharpest tempta- 
tions, he fortifies himself beforehand, and as it were brings 
together matter for confidence: for it is necessary that the 
saints earnestly wrestle with themselves to repel or subdue 
the doubts which the flesh is so prone to cherish, that they may 
cheerfully and speedily betake themselves to prayer. David, 
accordingly, having been tossed with various tempests, at 
length recovers himself, and shouts triumphantly over the 
troubles with which he had been harassed, rejoicing that when- 
ever God displays his mercy and favour, there is nothing to 
be feared. This is farther intimated by the accumulation of 
terms which he employs, when he calls God not only his light, 
but his salvation, and the rock or strength of his life. His object 
was, to put a threefold shield, as it were, against his various 
fears, as sufficient to ward them off. The term light, as is well 
known, is used in Scripture to denote joy, or the perfection 
of happiness. Farther, to explain his meaning, he adds that 
God was his salvation and the strength of his life, as it was by 
his help that he felt himself safe, and free from the terrors of 
death. Certainly we find that all our fears arise from this 
source, that we are too anxious about our life, while we 
acknowledge not that God is its preserver. We can haye 
no tranquillity, therefore, until we attain the persuasion that 
our life is sufficiently guarded, because it is protected by his 
omnipotent power. The interrogation, too, shows how high- 
ly David esteemed the Divine protection, as he thus boldly 


‘ 
A 


PSALM XXVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 451 


exults against all his enemies and dangers. Nor assuredly 
do we ascribe due homage to God, unless, trusting to his 
promised aid, we dare to boast of the certainty of our safety. 
Weighing, as it were, in scales the whole power of earth and 
hell, David accounts it all lighter than a feather, and consi- 
ders God alone as far outweighing the whole. 

Let us learn, therefore, to put such a value on God’s power 
to protect us as to put to flight all our fears. Not that the 
minds of the faithful can, by reason of the infirmity of the 
flesh, be at all times entirely devoid of fear; but immediately 
recovering courage, let us, from the high tower of our confi- 
dence, look down upon all our dangers with contempt. Those 
who have never tasted the grace of God tremble because 
they refuse to rely on him, and imagine that he is often in- 
censed against them, or at least far removed from them. But 
with the promises of God before our eyes, and the grace 
which they offer, our unbelief does him grievous wrong, if we 
do not with unshrinking courage boldly set him against all 
our enemies. When God, therefore, kindly allures us to him- 
self, and assures us that he will take care of our safety, since 
we have embraced his promises, or because we believe him to 
be faithful, it is meet that we highly extol his power, that it 
may ravish our hearts with admiration of himself. We must 
mark well this comparison, What are all creatures to God ? 
Moreover, we must extend this confidence still farther, in 
order to banish all fears from our consciences, like Paul, who, 
when speaking of his eternal salvation, boldly exclaims, “ If 
God be for us, who can be against us?’ (Rom. viii. 34.) 


2. When the wicked, §c. ‘There is no reason for translating 
this sentence, as some interpreters do, into the future tense. 
But while we retain the past tense which the prophet employs, 
the words may be explained in a twofold manner. The mean- 


'The rendering of the learned Castellio is, “ Si invadant——offensuri 
sunt atque casuri ;"—“ If they invade me—they shall stumble and fall.” 
The Hebrew verbs for “ stumble” and “ fall” are indeed in the past tense ; 
but in the prophetic rene it is often used for the future. There does not, 
however, as Calvin remarks, a to be any necessity for translating the 
verbs into the future tense in this passage, in which David may be consi- 
dered as contemplating the past evidences of the goodness of God towards 
him, and from them taking encouragement with respect to the future. 


452 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVII. 


ing either is, that David celebrates the victory which he had 
obtained by the blessing of God; or there is a reference to 
the manner in which he had encouraged himself to hope the 
best, even in the midst of his temptations, namely, by think- 
ing of God’s former favours. The latter is the exposition 
which I prefer. They both, however, amount to the same 
thing, and imply that David had no reason henceforth to 
doubt of God’s assistance when he considered his former expe- 
rience; for nothing is of greater use to confirm our faith, than 
the remembrance of those instances in which God has clearly 
given us a proof not only of his grace, but of his truth and 
power. I connect this verse, accordingly, with the following 
one. In the former, David recalls to mind the triumphs which, 
by God’s help, he had already obtained; and from this he 
concludes, that by what hosts soever he may be environed, or 
whatever mischief his enemies may devise against him, he 
would fearlessly stand up against them. The Hebrew word 
35); arab, signifies to approach; but here it refers to the 
irruption that David’s enemies made upon him when they 
assaulted him. Some translate it to fight, but this translation 
is flat. To testify his innocence, he calls them wicked or fro- 
ward, and by saying that they came upon him to eat up his 
Jlesh,' he expresses their savage cruelty. 


3. Though armies should encamp. He infers from his for- 
mer experience, as I have already mentioned, that whatever 
adversity may befall him, he ought to hope well, and to have 
no misgivings about the divine protection, which had been so 
effectually vouchsafed to him in his former need. He had 
asserted this, indeed, in the first verse, but now, upon farther 
proof of it, he repeats it. Under the terms, camps and armies, 
he includes whatever is most formidable in the world : as if he 
had said, Although all men should conspire for my destruction, 
I will disregard their violence, because the power of God, 
which I know is on my side, is far above theirs. But when 
he declares, My heart shall not fear, this does not imply that 
he would be entirely devoid of fear,—for that would have 


' French and Skinner read, “‘to devour my flesh ;” and observe, that “ this 
image is taken from a wild beast. Compare Ps, iii. 7, and Ps. xxii, 13.” 


PSALM XXVIIL. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 453 


been more worthy of the name of insensibility than of virtue ; 
but lest his heart should faint under the terrors which he had 
to encounter, he opposed to them the shield of faith. Some 
transfer the word translated in this to the following verse, 
meaning that he was confident that he would dwell in God’s 
house ; but I am of opinion that it belongs rather to the pre- 
ceding doctrine. For then does faith bring forth its fruit in 
due season, when we remain firm and fearless in the midst of 
dangers. David, therefore, intimates, that when the trial 
comes, his faith will prove invincible, because it relies on the 


power of God. 


4. One thing have I desired of Jehovah, this will I follow after ; 
that I may dwell in the house of Jehovah all the days of my 
life, to behold the beauty of Jehovah, and diligently to survey 
his temple. 

5. For he shall hide me in his tent in the day of evil :' he shall 
hide me in the secret place of his tent ; he shall set me up 
upon @ rock. 

6. And now shall he lift up my head above mine enemies who 
surround me : and I will offer sacrifices of joy in his taber- 
nacle ; I will sing and praise Jehovah, 

4. One thing have I desired. Some consider this as a pro- 
phecy of the perpetuity of David’s kingdom, on which not 
only his own personal happiness depended, but also the happi- 
ness of his whole people ; as if he had said, I am so well con- 
tented with this singular proof of God’s favour, that I can 
think on nothing else night and day. In my opinion, how- 
ever, it appears a simpler interpretation to view the words as 
meaning, that although David was banished from his country, 
despoiled of his wife, bereft of his kinsfolk ; and, in fine, dis- 
possessed of his substance, yet he was not so desirous for the 
recovery of these, as he was grieved and afflicted for his 
banishment from God’s sanctuary, and the loss of his sacred 
privileges. Under the word one, there is an implied antithe- 
sis, in which David, disregarding all other interests, displays 
his intense affection for the service of God; so that it was 
bitterer to him to be an exile from the sanctuary, than to be 


~ 1 © C'est, d’adversite.”—Note, F’r. marg. “ That is, of adversity.” 


454 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVII. 


denied access to his own house. That David desired only one 
thing, therefore, namely, to dwell in the house of the Lord, 
must be read in one sentence. For there is no probability 
that he means by this some secret wish which he suppressed, 
seeing he distinctly proclaims what it was that chiefly troubled 
him. He adds, too, steadiness of purpose, declaring that he 
will not cease to reiterate these prayers. Many may be seen 
spurring on with great impetuosity at first, whose ardour, in 
process of time, not only languishes, but is almost immedi- 
ately extinguished. By declaring, therefore, that he would 
persevere in this wish during his whole life, he thereby dis- 
tinguishes between himself and hypocrites. 

We must, however, observe by what motive David was so 
powerfully stimulated.. “ Surely,” some may say, “he could 
have called on God beyond the precincts of the temple. 
Wherever he wandered as an exile, he carried with him the 
precious promise of God, so that he needed not to put so great 
a value upon the sight of the external edifice. He appears, by 
some gross imagination or other, to suppose that God could be 
enclosed by wood and stones.” But if we examine the words 
more carefully, it will be easy to see, that his object was alto- 
gether different from a mere sight of the noble building and its 
ornaments, however costly. He speaks, indeed, of the beauty 
of the temple, but he places that beauty not so much in the 
goodliness that was to be seen by the eye, as in its being the 
celestial pattern which was shown to Moses, as it is written 
in Exod. xxv. 40, “ And look that thou make them after 
this pattern which was showed thee in the mount.” As the 
fashion of the temple was not framed according to the wisdom 
of man, but was an image of spiritual things, the prophet 
directed his eyes and all his affections to this object. Their 
madness is, therefore, truly detestable who wrest this place 
in fayour of pictures and images, which, instead of desery- 
ing to be numbered among temple ornaments, are rather like 
dung and filth, defiling all the purity of holy things. We 
should now consider, whether the faithful are to be like- 
minded under the Christian or Gospel dispensation.’ I own, 


1 “ Sous le regne de Christ.”—Fr. 


PSALM XXVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 455 


indeed, that we are in very different circumstances from the 
ancient fathers; but so far as God still preserves his people 
under a certain external order, and draws them to him by 
earthly instructions, temples have still their beauty, which 
deservedly ought to draw the affections and desires of the 
faithful to them. The Word, sacraments, public prayers, 
and other helps of the same kind, cannot be neglected, with- 
out a wicked contempt of God, who manifests himself to us 
in these ordinances, as in a mirror or image. 


5. For he shall hide me in his tent. Here the Psalmist 
promises himself that his prayer would not be im vain. 
Although he is deprived of the visible sanctuary for a time, 
he doubts not that, wherever he may be, he shall experience 
the protecting power of God. And he alludes to the temple, 
because it was a symbol to the faithful of the divine presence ; 
as if he had said, that in making the request which he men- 
tioned he by no means lost his labour; for every one who 
shall seek God sincerely, and with a pure heart, shall be 
safely concealed under the wings of his protection. The 
figure of the temple, he therefore affirms, was not an unmean- 
ing one, for there God, so to speak, spread forth his wings to 
gather true believers under his protection. From this he 
concludes, that as he had no greater desire than to flee for 
refuge under these wings, there would be a shelter ready for 
him in times of adversity, under the divine protection, which, 
under the figure of a rock, he tells us, would be impregnable 
like towers, which, for the sake of strength, were wont to be 
built, in ancient times, in lofty places. Although he was, 
therefore, at this time, environed by enemies on every side, 
yet he boasts that he shall overcome them. It is, indeed, a 
common form of speech in the Scriptures to say, that those 
who are oppressed with grief walk with a bowed down back 
and dejected countenance, while, on the other hand, they lift 
up their heads when their joyfulness is restored. Thus 
David spake, Psalm iii. 4, “ Thou, Lord, art the lifter up of 
mine head.” But because besieging is here put in opposi- 
tion to this, he meant to say, that in that divine refuge he 
- would be as it were lifted on high, so that he might fear- 


456 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVIII. 


_ 


lessly disregard the darts of his enemies, which might have 
otherwise pierced him. And in hoping for victory, though 
he was reduced to such straits as threatened instant death, 
he gives us a remarkable proof of his faith; by which we are 
taught not to measure the aid of God by outward appear- 
ances or visible means, but even in the midst of death to hope 
for deliverance from his powerful and victorious hand. 


6. And I will offer sacrifices of triumph’ in his tabernacle. 
By making a solemn vow of thanksgiving, after he shall have 
been delivered from dangers, he confirms himself again in 
the hope of deliverance. The faithful under the Law, we 
know, were wont, by a solemn rite, to pay their vows, 
when they had experienced any remarkable blessing from 
God. Here, therefore, David, though in banishment, and 
prohibited from approaching the temple, boasts that he would 
again come to the altar of God, and offer the sacrifice of 
praise. It appears, however, that he tacitly sets the holy 
rejoicing and songs, in which he promises to give thanks to 
God, in opposition to the profane triumphings of the world. 


7. Hear, O Jehovah! my voice, with which I cry unto thee; have 
mercy upon me, and answer me. 

8. My heart said to thee,’ Seek ye my face ; therefore,* thy face, 
O Jehovah! will I seek. 

9. Hide not thy face from me; cast not away thy servant in thy 
wrath ; thou hast been my strength ; leave me not, neither 
forsake me utterly, O God of my salvation ! 


7. Hear, O Jehovah! my voice. The Psalmist returns again 
to prayer, and in doing so, he declares with what armour he 
was furnished to break through his temptations. By the 
word cry, he expresses his vehemence, as I have elsewhere 
said, that he may thereby move God the sooner to help him. 


t “ Sacrificia jubili."—Lat. “ Sacrifice de triomphe.”—Fr, Ainsworth 
reads, ‘‘ Sacrifices of shouting, or of triumph, of joyful sounding and alarm.” 
‘ This,” says he, ‘* hath respect to the law which appointed over the sacri- 
fices trumpets to be sounded, Numb. x. 10, whose chiefest, most loud, 
joyful, and triumphant sound was called trughnah, [or nema, truah, the 
word here used,] ‘ triumph,’ ‘ alarm,’ or ‘ jubilation,’ Numb. x. 5-7.” 

2 “ Ou dit de toy."—J/’r. marg. ‘*‘ Or said of or concerning thee.” 

3“ Pourtant.”—Fr. 


PSALM XXVIIL. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 457 


For the same purpose, also, he a little after mentions his 
misery, because the more the faithful are oppressed, the more 
does their very need induce God to extend his favour towards 
them. 


8. My heart said to thee. The change of person in the 
verbs has occasioned a variety of interpretations of this verse. 
But whoever closely examines David’s design will perceive 
that the text runs perfectly well. As it becomes us not rashly 
to rush into the presence of God, until he first calls us, David 
first tells us, that he carefully considered how gently and 
sweetly God prevents his people, by spontaneously inviting 
them to seek his face ; and then, recovering his cheerfulness, he 
declares he would come wheresoever God may call him. The 
sense of the Hebrew word 6, leha, is somewhat ambiguous. 
It may mean the same thing as ti, to thee, in Latin. But 
as the Hebrew letter b, lamed, is often used for the preposi- 
tion of, or concerning, it may properly enough be translated, 
My heart hath said of thee ; an exposition to which the majo- 
rity of interpreters incline. More probably, however, in ray 
opinion, it denotes a mutual conversation between God and 
the prophet. Ihave just said, that no one can believingly 

‘rise to seek God until the way is first opened by God’s 
invitation, as I have elsewhere shown from the prophet’s 
declaration, “ I will say, It is my people; and they shall say, 
The Lord is my God,” (Zech. xiii. 9.) David accordingly says, 
that in this way the door was opened for him to seek God : 
he brings forward this promise, and thus responds, as it were, 
to God.' And, certainly, if this symphony does not precede, 
no man will conduct aright the chorus of the invitation. As 
soon, therefore, as we hear God presenting himself to us, let 
us cordially reply, Amen ; and let us think with ourselves of 
his promises, as if they were familiarly addressed to us. Thus 


1 Calvin’s meaning appears to be this :—God has given us in his word 
that ious command or invitation, ‘‘ Seek ye my face,” inviting us to 
_seek him by prayer and the other exercises of religion. Now, when David 
_ says, “ My heart said to thee, Seek ye my face,” he means that his heart 
reminded God of his command or invitation ; and by this he encouraged 
himself to seek God’s face, which he expresses his resolution to do in the 
following clause, “ Thy face, O Jehovah! will I seek.” . 


458 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVIIL. 


true believers have no need to seek any subtle artifice or 
tedious circuits to introduce themselves into God’s favour, 
- since this preface prepares so easy a way for them, “ How- 
ever unworthy we are to be received by thee, O Lord, yet 
thy commandment, by which thou enjoinest upon us to 
come to thee, is sufficient encouragement to us.” The 
voice of God, therefore, ought to resound in our hearts, like 
an echo in hollow places, that from this mutual concord there 
may spring confidence to call upon him. 

The term, face, is commonly explained to mean help or 
succour ; as if it had been said, Seek me. But I am per- 
suaded that the allusion here is also to the sanctuary, and ~ 
that David refers to the mode of manifestation in which God 
was wont to render himself in some degree visible. No doubt, 
it is unlawful to form any gross or carnal idea of him, but 
as he appointed the ark of the covenant to be a token of his 
presence, it is, without any impropriety, every where deno- 
minated his face. It is indeed true, that we are far from God 
so long as we abide in this world, because faith is far removed 
from sight; but it is equally true, that we now see God as in 
a mirror, and darkly, (1 Cor. xiii. 12,) until he shall openly 
show himself to us at the last day. Under this word, there- 
fore, I am persuaded, are represented to us those helps by 
which God raises us to his presence, descending from his 
inconceivable glory to us, and furnishing us on earth with a 
vision of his heavenly glory. But as it is according to his 
own sovereign pleasure that God vouchsafes us to look upon 
him, (as he does in Word and sacraments,) it becomes us 
steadily to fix our eyes on this view, that it may not be with 
us as with the Papists, who, by means of the wildest inyen- 
tions, wickedly transform God into whatever shapes please 
their fancy, or their brains have conceived. 


9. Hide not thy face from me. The Psalmist elegantly 
continues the same form of speech, but witha different mean- 
ing. The face of God is now employed to deseribe the sen- 
sible effects of his grace and favour: as if it had been said, 
Lord, make me truly to experience that thou hast been 
near to me, and let me clearly behold thy power in saving 


PSALM XXVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 459 


me. We must observe the distinction between the theo- 
retical knowledge derived from the Word of God and what is 
called the experimental knowledge of his grace. For as 
“God shows himself present in operation, (as they usually 
speak,) he must first be sought inhis Word. The sentence 
which follows, Cast not away thy servant in thine anger, 
some Jewish interpreters expound in too forced a manner to 
mean, Suffer not thy servant to be immersed in the wicked 
eares of this world, which are nothing but anger and madness. 
I, however, prefer to translate the Hebrew word 73, natah, 
as many translate it, to turn away from, or to remove. Their 
meaning is more probable who interpret it, Make not thy ser- 
vant to decline to anger. When a person is utterly forsaken 
by God, he cannot but be agitated within by murmuring 
thoughts, and break forth into the manifestations of vexation 
and anger. If any one think that David now anticipates this 
temptation, I shall not object, for he was not without reason 
afraid of impatience, which weakens us and makes us go be- 
yond the bounds of reason. But I keep to the first exposi- 
tion, as it is confirmed by the two words which follow; and 
thus the term anger imports a tacit confession of sin ; because, 
_ although David acknowledges that God might justly cast him 
off, he deprecates his anger. Moreover, by recalling to mind 
God's former favours, he encourages himself to hope for more, 
and by this argument he moves God to continue his help, and 
not to leave his work imperfect. 


10. When my father and mother shall forsake me, Jehovah will 
take me up. 

ll. Teach me thy way, O Jehovah! and lead me in the right 
path, because of mine adversaries. 

12. Give me not up to the desire' of mine oppressors : for false 
witnesses have risen up against me, and he who bringeth 
forth violence. 


10. When my father and my mother shall forsake me. As it 
appears from the sacred history, that Jesse, so far as his 
opportunity admitted, performed his duty to his son David, 
some are of opinion that the nobles and councillors are here 


=. 1% O’est, plaisir."—/'r. marg. “That is, will or pleasure.” 


460 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVII. 


mentioned allegorically ; but this is not suitable. Nor is it 
with any reason that they urge this scruple. David does not 
complain that he was unnaturally betrayed by his father or 
mother ; but by this comparison he magnifies the grace of God, 
declaring, that he would ever find him ready to help him, 
although he might be forsaken of all men. The Hebrew par- 
ticle 5, Ai, for the most part, signifies for, but it is also known 
to be often employed for the adverb of time, when. David, 
therefore, meant to intimate, that whatever benevolence, 
love, zeal, attention, or service, might be found among men, 
they are far inferior to the paternal mercy with which God 
encircles his people. The highest degree of love among men, — 
it is true, is to be found in parents who love their children as 
their own bowels. But God advances us higher, declaring, 
by the prophet Isaiah, that though a mother may forget the 
child of her womb, he would always be mindful of us, (Isaiah 
xlix. 15.) In this degree does David place him, so that he 
who is the source of all goodness far surpasses all mortals, 
who are naturally malevolent and niggardly. It is, however, 
an imperfect mode of speech, like that in Isaiah Lxiii. 16, 
“ Doubtless, thou art our Father, though Abraham be ignor- 
ant of us, and Israel acknowledge us not.” The purport of 
the whole is this : However inclined by nature earthly parents 
are to help their children, nay, though they should endeayour 
to cherish them with the greatest ardour of affection, yet 
should affection be wholly extinguished in the earth, God 
would fulfil the duty both of father and mother to his people. 
From which it follows, that we basely undervalue the grace 
of God, if our faith rise not above all the affections of nature ; 
for sooner shall the laws of nature be overturned a hundred 
times, than God shall fail his people. 


1l. Teach me thy way, O Jehovah ! Many think that David 
here requests that God would guide him by his Spirit, lest 
he should surpass his enemies in acting violently and wicked- 
ly. This doctrine is, no doubt, very useful, but it does not 
seem to agree with the scope of the passage. It is a simpler 
interpretation, in my opinion, to consider that David desires, 
in order to escape the snares and violence of his enemies, 


PSALM XXVII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 461 


that God would extend to him his hand, and safely conduct 
him, so as to give a happy issue to his affairs. He sets the 
right path in opposition to the difficulties and impediments 
which are in places which are rough, and of difficult access, 
to overcome which he was unequal, unless God undertook 
the office of a guide to lead him. But he who thus desires 
to commit himself to the safeguard and protection of God,’ 
must first renounce crafty and wicked devices. We must 
not expect that God, who promises to grant a happy issue 
only to the single in heart, and those who trust in his faith- 
fulness, will bless crooked and wicked counsels. 


12. Give me not up to the desire of mine oppressors. The He- 
brew noun 5), nephesh, signifies lust, will, or desire ; and the 
language of David implies, Deliver me not up to the pleasure 
or lust of mine enemies, and thus he intimates, that they 
greedily gaped for his destruction. God delivers his people 
in two ways; either by appeasing the cruelty of the wicked, 
and rendering them meek; or, if he permit them to burn 
with fury, by restraining their power and violence, so that 
they desire and endeavour in vain to do mischief. The 
Psalmist afterwards adds, that he is persecuted both with 
- slanders and false accusations, and also by open violence ; for 

when he says, that they bring forth violence,? he means that 
they speak of nothing but of war and slaughter. We thus 
see that the holy man was miserably oppressed on every 
side. Even his integrity, which we know to have been sin- 
gular, could not free him from bitter and deadly calumnies, 
and he was at the same time overwhelmed by the violence 
and force of his enemies. If the ungodly, therefore, should 
at any time rise against us, not only with menaces and cruel 
violence, but to give the semblance of justice to their enmity, 
should slander us with lies, let us remember the example of 
Dayid, who was assaulted in both ways; nay, let us recall to 
mind that Christ the Son of God suffered no less injury from 


1 “En la sauvegarde et protection de Dieu.”—Fr. 
? Hammond renders the words “breathers or speakers of injury or 


rapine ; pen, ifying injury or rapine, and me, to breathe or speak.” 
Ainsworth fests, - He that breathet or puffeth out violent wrong.” 


462 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVII. 


lying tongues than from violence.! Moreover, this prayer was 
dictated for our comfort, to intimate that God can maintain 
our innocence, and oppose the shield of his protection to the 
cruelty of our enemies. 


13. Unless I had believed to see the goodness of Jehovah in the 
land of the living 2 

14, Wait thou on Jehovah ; be of good courage, and he shall 
strengthen thine heart : wait thou also on Jehovah. 


13. Unless I had believed to see the goodness of Jehovah. Tt 
is generally agreed among interpreters, that this sentence is 
incomplete. Some, however, are of opinion, that the Hebrew 
particle nby, lulé, is used for the purpose of affirmation, as 
if it were a species of oath; the Hebrews being accustomed 
to swear elliptically ; for breaking off in the middle of the dis- 
course and leaving it imperfect, they supplied an imprecation, 
namely, that God would punish them in case they perjured 
themselves. But the greater number give a different inter- 
pretation, namely, that David intimates that he was support- 
ed solely by faith, otherwise he had perished a hundred times. 
The meaning which they elicit, accordingly, is, Had I not 
relied on the promise of God, and been assuredly 
that he would safely preserve me, and had I not continued 
firm in this persuasion, I had utterly perished: There was 
no other remedy. Some understand by the land of the living, 
the heavenly inheritance ; but this interpretation is forced, 





1 “Te glaives et autre tels efforts..—Fr. ‘From the sword and other 
such weapons.” 

2 In the Hebrew this verse is elliptical, as Calvin here translates it. In 
the French version he supplies the ellipsis, by adding to the end of the 
verse the words, ‘“ C’estoit fait de moy,” “ I had perished.” In our Eng- 
lish version, the words, “ I had fainted,” are introduced as a supplement in 
the beginning of the verse. Both the pppement of Calvin, and that of 
our English version, which are substantially the same, doubtless exp 
the meaning of the p: e; but they destroy the elegant abrupt form of 
the expression employed by the Psalmist, who breaks off in the middle of 
his discourse without completing the sentence, although what he meant to 
say is very evident. ‘ Unless I had believed to see the of the 
Lord in the land of the living What! what, alas ! should have become 
of me!”—Dr Adam Clarke. As, however, x>>, lulé, which is rendered 
unless, is omitted by the ancient versions and several MSS., some consider 
it an interpolation, and translate the verse without an ellipsis. Thus Wal- 
ford renders it: ‘*I have believed that I shall behold the goodness of 
Jehovah in the land of the living.” 





PSALM XXVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 463 


and disagrees with the usual style of Scripture. When He- 
zekiah laments in his song recorded in Isaiah xxxviii. 11, that 
he had no hope of seeing God “in the land of the living,” he 
means, without all doubt, the present life, as he immediately 
adds, “I shall behold man no more with the inhabitants of 
the world.” A similar form of speech occurs also in another 
place, (Jer. xi. 19.) David then believed that he would still 
enjoy the goodness of God in this world, although he was 
now deprived of all experience of his favour, and could see 
no spark of light. From the darkness of death, therefore, he 
promises himself a view of the divine favour, and by this per- 
suasion his life is sustained, although, according to the judg- 
ment of carnal reason, it was past recovery and lost. It is 
to be observed, however, that David does not rashly go 
beyond the divine promise. It is true that “ godliness is 
profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that now 
is, and of that which is to come,” (1 Tim. iv. 8;) but he would 
have never dared to entertain this persuasion had he not been 
informed by a special revelation, and assuredly promised a 
suecessor, who should always sit upon his throne, (Psalm 
exxxil. 11, 12.) He was, therefore, justly persuaded that 
he would not die till this promise was fulfilled. Lest any 
. man, therefore, by an unwarranted imitation of his example, 
should overleap the boundaries of faith, it is necessary to 
understand what was peculiar to him, and did not belong to 
us. In general, however, we ought all to hope that, although 
God may not openly work deliverance for us, or show us his 
favour in a visible manner, he will, nevertheless, be always 
merciful to us, even in the present life. 


14. Wait thou on Jehovah. It may be doubted whether 
David, having in the preceding verses spoken of himself, here 
addresses his discourse to others, and exhorts them by his 
own example to fortitude and persevering patience, as he 
does in the conclusion of Psalm xxxi. 19, where, after speak- 
ing concerning himself particularly, he makes a transition, 
and addresses himself to all the godly. But as he speaks 
here in the singular number, and uses no mark to show that 

he directs his discourse to others, it is in my opinion pro- 


464 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVII. 


bable that he applies it to himself, the more to encourage his 
confidence in God, lest at any time his heart should faint.t 
As he was conscious of his weakness, and knew that his faith 
was the great means of preserving him safe, he seasonably 
strengthens himself for the future. Under the word wait- 
ing, too, he puts himself in mind of new trials, and sets be- 
fore his eyes the cross which he must bear. We are then 
said to wait on God, when, withdrawing his grace from us, 
he suffers us to languish under afflictions. David, there- 
fore, having got through one conflict, prepares himself to 
encounter new ones. But as nothing is more difficult than 
to give God the honour of relying upon him, when he hides 
himself from us, or delays his assistance, David stirs himself 
up to collect strength; as if he had said, If fearfulness steal 
upon thee; if temptation shake thy faith; if the feelings of 
the flesh rise in tumult, do not faint; but rather endeayour 
to rise above them by an invincible resolution of mind. From 
this we may learn, that the children of God overcome, not by 
sullenness, but by patience, when they commit their souls 
quietly to God; as Isaiah says, “In quietness and in confi- 
dence shall be your strength,” (Isaiah xxx. 15.) As David 
did not feel himself equal to great and difficult efforts, he 
borrows strength from God by prayer. Had he said no more 
than Act like a man,? he would have appeared to allege the 
motions of his own free-will, but as he immediately adds, 
by way of correction, that God would be at hand to strengthen 
his heart, he plainly enough shows, that when the saints strive 
vigorously, they fight in the strength of another, and not in 
their own. David does not, like the Papists, put his own 
efforts into the van, and afterwards supplicate for divine aid, — 
but having done his own duty, although he knew that he was 
destitute of strength in himself, he requests that his deficiency — 


1“ A ce que sa foy ne soit jamais esbranler."—Fr. “That his faith ; 
might never be shaken.” 

Calvin here seems to use the Septuagint version. What he renders 

in the text, ‘“‘ Be of good courage,” is rendered by the int ‘ dyd- 

fou,” “ Be manly, or act like aman.” The Vulgate reads, * viriliter age,” 

ollowing the Septuagint, as it generally does. Paul uses the same phraseo- 
logy in 1 Cor. xvi. 13. ‘* These,” sy Fost ‘* are the words I 

agement against remissness, fear, faintness of heart, or other infirmities.” 






PSALM XXVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 465 


may be supplied by the grace of the Holy Spirit. And as 
he knew that the war must be continued during his whole 
life, and that new conflicts would daily arise, and that the 
troubles of the saints are often protracted for a long period, 
he again repeats what he had said about waiting on God: 
Wait thou alone on Jehovah. 


PSALM XXVIII. 


After being delivered by God’s help from great dangers, David, in this 
psalm, according to his custom, first records the vows that he had made 
in the midst of his difficulties, and then his thanksgivings and praises 
to God, to induce others to follow his example. It is probable that he 
speaks of his persecutions by Saul. 


¥ A Psalm of David. 


1. Unto thee, O Jehovah ! will Icry ; Omy strength! hold not thy 
peace from me; lest, shouldst thou be silent to me, I be- 
come like them that go down to the grave. 

2. Hear the voice of my prayers when I cry to thee, when I lift 
up my hands to the sanctuary of thy holiness. 


1. Unto thee, O Jehovah! will I cry. The Psalmist begins 
by declaring that he would betake himself to the help of God 
alone, which shows both his faith and his sincerity. Although 
men labour every where under a multitude of troubles, yet 
scarcely one in a hundred ever has recourse to God. Al- 
most all having their consciences burdened with guilt, and 
haying never experienced the power of divine grace which 
might lead them to betake themselves to it, either proudly 
gnaw the bit or fill the air with unavailing complaints, or, 
giving way to desperation, faint under their afflictions. By 
calling God his strength, David more fully shows that he con- 
fided in God’s assistance, not only when he was in the shade 
and in peace, but also when he was exposed to the severest 
temptations. In comparing himself to the dead, too, he in- 

' VOL. I. 2G 


466 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVIII. 


timates how great his straits were, although his object was 
not merely to point out the magnitude of his danger, but 
also to show that when he needed succour, he looked not 
here and there for it, but relied on God alone, without whose 
favour there remained no hope for him. It is, therefore, as 
if he had said, I am nothing if thou leavest me; if thou 
succourest me not, I perish, It is not enough for one who is 
in such a state of affliction to be sensible of his misery, unless, 
convinced of his inability to help himself, and renouncing all 
help from the world, he betake himself to God alone. And 
as the Scriptures inform us that God answers true believers 
when he shows by his operations that he regards their sup- 
plications, so the word si/ent is set in opposition to the sen- 
sible and present experience of his aid, when he appears, as it 
were, not to hear their prayers. 


2. Hear the voice of my prayers when I cry to thee. This re- 
petition is a sign of a heart in anguish. David's ardour and 
vehemence in prayer are also intimated by the noun signify- 
ing voice, and the verb signifying ¢o cry. He means that he 
was so stricken with anxiety and fear, that he prayed not cold- 
ly, but with burning, vehement desire, like those who, under 
the pressure of grief, vehemently cry out. In the second 
clause of the verse, by synecdoche, the thing signified is indi- 
cated by the sign. It has been a common practice in all ages 
for men to lift up their hands in prayer. Nature has extorted 
this gesture even from heathen idolaters, to show by a visible 
sign that their minds were directed to God alone. The greater 
part, it is true, contented with this ceremony, busy themselves 
to no effect with their own inventions ; but the very lifting up 
of the hands, when there is no hypocrisy and deceit, is a help 
to devout and zealous prayer. David, however, does not say 


here that he lifted his hands to heaven, but to the sanctuary, 
that, aided by its help, he might ascend the more easily to — 
heaven. He was not so gross, or so superstitiously tied to the 


outward sanctuary, as not to know that God must be sought 
spiritually, and that men then only approach to him when, leay- 


iug the world, they penetrate by faith to celestial glory. But — 
remembering that he was a man, he would not neglect this aid — 





| 





PSALM XXVIIL THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 467 


afforded to his infirmity. As the sanctuary was the pledge 
or token of the covenant of God, David beheld the presence 
of God’s promised grace there, as if it had been represented 
in a mirror; just as the faithful now, if they wish to have a 
sense of God’s nearness to them, should immediately direct 
their faith to Christ, who came down to us in his incarnation, 
that he might lift us up to the Father. Let us understand, 
then, that David clung to the sanctuary with no other view 
than that by the help of God’s promise he might rise above 
the elements of the world, which he used, however, accord- 
ing to the appointment of the Law. The Hebrew word 9", 
debir, which we have rendered sanctuary,' signifies the inner- 
room of the tabernacle or temple, or the most holy place, where 
the ark of the covenant was contained, and it is so called from 
the answers or oracles which God gave forth from thence, to 
testify to his people the presence of his favour among them. 


3. Draw me not away with wicked men, nor with the workers of 

iniquity, who speak peace to their neighbours, while malice 
: is in their hearts. 

4. Give them according to their works, and according to the wick- 
edness of their doings ; give them according to the work 
of their hands ; render them their reward. 

5. Because they regard not the doings of Jehovah, neither the work 
of his hands, let him destroy them, and not build them up. 


3. Draw me not away with wicked men. The meaning is, 
that in circumstances so dissimilar, God should not mingle the 
righteous with the wicked in the same indiscriminate destruc- 
tion.? Undoubtedly, too, in speaking of his enemies, he indi- 
rectly asserts his own integrity. But he did not pray in this 
manner, because he thought that God was indiscriminately 
and unreasonably angry with men; he reasons rather from 


1 -»34, debir, is derived from sm, dabar, to speak. 

® The verb ws, mashak, here rendered draw, “ signifies,” as Hammond 
observes, ** both to draw and apprehend,” and may ‘ be best rendered 
here, Seize not on me, as he that seizeth on any to carry or drag him to 
execution. The Septuagint, after having literally rendered the Hebrew 
by Mg cvveaxdons tn» Yuxqv pov, draw not my soul together with, &c., 
add, Kiay uq cvvaroniens, wt, &c., and destroy me not together with,” &c. 
Caivin here evidently takes the same view; though he does not express it 
in the form of criticism, 


468 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVIII. 


the nature of God, that he ought to cherish good hope, 
because it was God’s prerogative to distinguish between 
the righteous and the wicked, and to give every one his due 
reward. By the workers of iniquity, he means man wholly 
addicted to wickedness. The children of God sometimes fall, 
commit errors, and act amiss in one way or other, but they 
take no pleasure in their evil doings; the fear of God, on 
the contrary, stirs them up to repentance. David afterwards 
defines and enlarges upon the wickedness of those whom he 
describes; for, under pretence of friendship they perfidiously 
deceived good men, professing one thing with their tongue, 
while they entertained a very different thing in their hearts. 
Open depravity is easier to be borne with than this craftiness 
of the fox, when persons put on fair appearances in order to 
find opportunity of doing mischief.’ This truth, accordingly, 
admonishes us that those are most detestable in God’s sight, 
who attack the simple and unwary with fair speeches as with 
poison. 


4. Give them according to their works. Having thus re- 
quested God to have a regard to his innocence, the Psalmist 
thunders forth a curse against his enemies. And the accu- 
mulation of words shows that he had groaned long and 
grievously under the burden before he broke forth to desire 
such vengeance. He intimates that the wicked of whom 
he speaks had transgressed not once, nor for a short time, 
nor in one way, but that they had proceeded so far in their 
constant evil doings, that their audacity was no longer to be 
endured. We know how troublesome and grievous a temp- 
tation it is to see the ungodly proceeding without measure 
or end, as if God connived at their wickedness. Dayid, 
therefore, wearied as it were with continual forbearing, and 
fainting under the burden, implores God, at length, to re- 
strain the wantonness of his enemies, who of late ceased not 
to heap wickedness upon wickedness. Thus we perceive that 
there is nothing superfluous in this verse, when to works he 
adds the wickedness of their doings, and the work of their hands, 


1 “ Que ceste finesse de sh ~ ag quand on use de beaux semblans pour 
avoir occasion de nuire.” 


PSALM XXVIII THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 469 


and thrice petitions that they may receive the reward which 
they have deserved. Add to this, that he at the same time 
bears testimony to his own faith, to which boasting hypo- 
erites often compel the children of God, while by their deceit 
and cayils, they impose upon the judgments of the world. 
We see how men who are distinguished for wickedness, not 
content with impunity themselves, cannot abstain from op- 
pressing the innocent by false accusations, just as the wolf, 
desirous of making a prey’ of the lambs, according to the 
common proverb, accused them of troubling the water. David 
is therefore compelled by this exigency to call upon God for 
protection. Here again occurs the difficult question about 
praying for vengeance, which, however, I shall despatch in 
few words, as I have discussed it elsewhere. In the first 
place, then, it is unquestionable, that if the flesh move us 
to seek revenge, the desire is wicked in the sight of God. 
He not only forbids us to imprecate evil upon our enemies 
in revenge for private injuries, but it cannot be other- 
wise than that all those desires which spring from hatred 
must be disordered. David’s example, therefore, must not 
be alleged by those who are driven by their own intem- 
perate passion to seek vengeance. The holy prophet is 
not inflamed here by his own private sorrow to devote 
his enemies to destruction; but laying aside the desire 
of the flesh, he gives judgment concerning the matter itself. 
Before a man can, therefore, denounce vengeance against 
the wicked, he must first shake himself free from all im- 
proper feelings in his own mind. In the second place, pru- 
dence must be exercised, that the heinousness of the evils 
which offend us drive us not to intemperate zeal, which hap- 
pened even to Christ’s disciples, when they desired that fire 
might be brought from heaven to consume those who refused 
to entertain their Master, (Luke ix. 54.) They pretended, 
it is true, to act according to the example of Elias; but 
Christ severely rebuked them, and told them that they 
knew not by what spirit they were actuated. In particular, 
we must observe this general rule, that we cordially desire 
and labour for the welfare of the whole human race. Thus 


1 “ Voulant devorer les agneaux.”—Fr, 


470 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVIII. 


it will come to pass, that we shall not only give way to 
the exercise of God’s mercy, but shall also wish the conver- 
sion of those who seem obstinately to rush upon their own 
destruction. In short, David, being free from every evil 
passion, and likewise endued with the spirit of discretion 
and judgment, pleads here not so much his own cause as 
the cause of God. And by this prayer, he farther reminds 
both himself and the faithful, that although the wicked may 
give themselves loose reims in the commission of every 
species of vice with impunity for a time, they must at length 
stand before the judgment-seat of God. 


5. Because they regard not the doings of Jehovah. In this 
verse he lays open the root of impiety, declaring that the 
ungodly are so bold to do mischief, because, while they are 
thus indulging their hatred, and perpetrating every species of 
wickedness, they think that they have nothing to do with God. 
And when conscience stings them, they soothe themselves 
with false hopes, and at last stubbornly harden themselves into 
insensibility. First, being intoxicated with prosperity, they 
flatter themselves that God is their friend, while he has no 
regard for those good men who are overwhelmed with so 
many afflictions; and, next, they persuade themselves that 
the world is governed by chance, thus blinding themselves in 
the midst of the clear light of day. In this manner, David's 
adversaries, willingly ignorant that God had appointed him 
to be king, emboldened themselves to persecute him. He 
therefore complains of their gross ignorance of this, just as 
Isaiah (chap. v. 20) brings the same complaint, in general 
terms, against all the ungodly of his days. This doctrine, 
then, has a twofold use. First, it is no small consolation to 
the children of God to be persuaded, while they are unright- 
eously vexed, that by the providence of God they are thus 
profitably exercised to patience; and that while the affairs 
of this world are all in a state of disturbance and confusion, 
God nevertheless sits supreme in heaven conducting and 
governing all things.'' In the second place, this is a very 
proper curb to subdue the passions of our flesh, that we may 


* “ Conduisant et gouvernant toutes choses.”—Fr, 





PSALM XXVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 471 


not, like the Andabates,' contend in the dark, and with shut 
eyes, as if God saw not and cared not about what is done 
here below. Let us, therefore, learn carefully to consider 
that the judgments which God executes are just so many 
proofs of his righteousness in governing mankind, and that 
although all things should be huddled together in confusion, 
the eye of faith should be directed to heaven, to consider 
God's secret judgments. And as God never ceases, eyen in 
the midst of the greatest darkness, to give some tokens of 
his providence, it is inexcusable indolence not to attend to 
them. This perverseness the prophet aggravates, by repeat- 
ing again, the works of God’s hands. He thus intimates, 
that the ungodly, by recklessly pursuing their course, tram- 
ple under foot whatever of God’s works they may meet 
with to check their madness. 

Let him destroy them, and not build them up. Some are of 
opinion that the first part of this verse is the nominative 
in the room of a substantive to the verbs in the last clause; 
as if Dayid had said, This brutal madness shall destroy 
them; but the name of God should rather be supplied, and 
then the context will run excellently. As the verbs, how- 
ever, in the Hebrew are in the future tense,’ the sentence 
may be explained as meaning that David now assures him- 
self of the destruction of the reprobates for which he had 
lately prayed. I do not reject this interpretation; but, in 
my opinion, the words are just a continuance of his petitions. 
In this way, he prays that the wicked may be overthrown, 


so as not to rise again, or recover their former state. The : 
expression, Let him destroy them, and not build them up, is a * 


common figure of speech among the Hebrews, according to 
what Malachi says concerning Edom, “Thus saith the Lord 
of Hosts, They shall build, but I shall throw down,” (chap. i. 
4.) Lest we should be struck, therefore, with an incurable 
plague, let us learn to awake our minds to the consideration 


1 “ C’estoyent certains peuples ou escrimeurs - souloyent ainsi com- 
battre. Voyez les Chiliades d’Erasme.”—Note, 'r. marg. ‘These were 
certain people or fencers, who were wont to fight in this manner. See 
the Chiliades of Erasmus.” 

2 “ He will destroy them, and not build them up.” 


472 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXVIII. 


of God’s works, that we may be taught to fear him, to per- 
severe in patience, and to advance in godliness, 


6. Blessed be Jehovah, for he hath heard the voice of my suppli- 
cation. 

7. Jehovah is my strength and my shield, my heart hath trusted 
in him, and I have been helped : therefore shall my heart 
rejoice, and with my song will I praise him. 

8. Jehovah is their strength ; and he is also the strength of the 
salvations [or deliverances| of his anointed. 


6. Blessed be Jehovah, who hath heard. 'This is the second 
part of the psalm in which the prophet begins to give thanks 
to God. We have already seen how he employed himself 
in prayer in the midst of his dangers ; and now by this thanks- 
giving he teaches us that his prayers were not in vain. Thus 
he confirms by his own example, that God is ready to bring 
help to his people whenever they seek him in truth and 
sincerity. He declares the same truth more fully in the 
next verse, calling God his strength and his shield; for he 
was persuaded that God had heard him from this, that he 
had been wonderfully preserved. He adds, that he had 
been helped in respect of his confidence and hope; for it 
often comes to pass, that those who call upon God, notwith- 
standing come short of his grace through their own unbelief. 
Thirdly, he says that he will add to his joy a testimony of 
his gratitude. Wicked men and hypocrites flee to God 
when they are overwhelmed with difficulties, but as soon as 
they escape from them, forgetting their deliverer, they 
rejoice with frantic mirth. In short, David trusted not in 
vain, since he truly found by experience that God possesses 
ever present power to preserve his servants; and that this 
was matter of true and solid joy to him, that he found God 
ever favourable to him. On this account, likewise, he pro- 
mises that he would be mindful of God, and grateful to him. 
And undoubtedly, when God spreads cheerfulness through 
our hearts, it is to open our mouths to sing his praises. 


8. Jehovah is their strength. By way of explanation, he 
repeats what he had said before, that God had been his 


PSALM XXVIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 473 


strength ; namely, because he had blessed his armies. David 
had indeed employed the hand and labour of men, but to 
God alone he ascribes the victory. As he knew that what- 
ever help he had obtained from men proceeded from God, 
and that his prosperous success flowed likewise from his 
gratuitous favour, he discerned his hand in these means, as 
palpably as if it had been stretched forth from heaven. 
And surely it is passing shameful, that human means, which 
are only the instruments of God’s power, should obscure his 
glory; although there is no sin more common. It is a 
manner of speaking which has great weight, when, speaking 
of his soldiers, he uses only the pronoun ¢heir, as if he 
pointed to them with the finger. The second clause assigns 
the reason of the other. He declares that himself and his 
whole army were endued with victorious valour from 
heayen, because he fought under the standard of God. 
This is the meaning of the word anointed ; for, had not God 
appointed him king, and freely adopted him, he would not 
have favoured him any more than he did Saul. By this 
means, in extolling solely the power of God which advanced 
him to the kingdom, he attributes nothing to his own policy 
or power. In the meantime, we may learn, that when one 
‘is satisfied of the lawfulness of his calling, this doctrine 
encourages him to entertain good hope with respect to the 
prosperous issue of his affairs. In particular, it is to be ob- 
served, as we have briefly noticed in another place, that the 
fountain whence all the blessings God bestows upon us flows 
is, that he hath chosen us in Christ. David employs salva- 
tions or deliverances in the plural number, because he had been 
often and in various ways preserved. The meaning, there- 
fore, is, that from the time when God had anointed him by 
the hand of Samuel, he never ceased to help him, but de- 
livered him in innumerable ways, until he had accomplished 
the work of his grace in him. 


9. Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance ; feed them, and 
lift them up for ever. 


In this verse he shows that it was not so much his own 
welfare as the welfare of the whole Church which was the 


474 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIX. 


- 


object of his concern, and that he neither lived nor reigned 
for himself, but for the common good of the people. He 
well knew that he was appointed king for no other end. 
In this he declares himself to be a type of the Son of God, 
of whom, when Zechariah (chap. ix. 9) predicts that he 
would come “having salvation,” there is no doubt that he 
promises nothing to him apart from his members, but that 
the effects of this salvation would diffuse themselves through- 
out his whole body. By this example, accordingly, he pre- 
scribes a rule to earthly kings, that, devoting themselves to 
the public good, they should only desire to be preserved for 
the sake of their people." How very far otherwise it is, it is 

needless to say. Blinded with pride and presumption they — 
despise the rest of the world, just as if their pomp and 
dignity raised them altogether above the common state of 
man. Nor is it to be wondered at, that mankind are so 
haughtily and contumeliously trampled under foot of kings, 
since the greatest part cast off and disdain to bear the cross 
of Christ.2 Let us therefore remember that David is like a 
mirror, in which God sets before us the continual course of his 
grace. Only we must be careful, that the obedience of our 
faith may correspond to his fatherly love, that he may acknow- 
ledge us for his people and inheritance. The Scriptures often 
designate David by the name of a shepherd; but he himself 
assigns that office to God, thus confessing that he is alto- 
gether unfit for it,? save only in as far as he is God’s minister, 


PSALM XXIX. 


David, that he may humble all men before God, from the highest to the — 
lowest, celebrates his terrible power in the various wonders of nature, 


1 “ Que tout la prosperite qu’ils se souhaitent soit & cause du peuple.” 
—Fr. ‘ That all the prosperity they desire should be for the sake of the 

eople.” 
Pe Veu - la plus grand part rejette et desdaigne de porter le joug de 
Christ.” —Fr. 
® “+ Qu’il n’en est pas digne."—Fr. “ That he is not worthy of it.” 






) PSALM XXIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 475 


which he affirms are not less fitted to arouse us to give glory to God, 
than if he were to assert his empire and majesty with his own voice. 
After he has struck fear into the proud, who are reluctant to yield, and 
addressed an exhortation to them accompanied by a gentle reproof, he 
sweetly invites the faithful voluntarily to fear the Lord. 


¢ A Psalm of David. 
1. Give unto Jehovah, ye sons of the mighty, give unto Jehovah 


glory and strength. 

2. Give unto Jehovah the glory of his name ;' worship before 
Jehovah in the brightness of his sanctuary. 

3. The voice of Jehovah is upon the waters; the God of glory 
thundereth ; Jehovah is upon the great waters, 

4. The voice of Jehovah is in strength, the voice of Jehovah is in 
beauty. 


1. Give unto Jehovah, ye sons of the mighty. It was no 
doubt David’s design to lead all men to worship and reve- 
rence God; but as it is more difficult to reduce great 
men, who excel in rank, to order, he expressly addresses 
himself to them. It is obvious, that the Septuagint, in 
giving the translation, sons of rams,’ were led into a mistake 
by the affinity of the Hebrew words.* About the significa- 
tion of the word, indeed, the Jewish commentators are all 
agreed ; but when they proceed to speak of its meaning, they 
pervert and obscure it by the most chilling comments. Some 


1 “ C'est, digne de son nom.”—Note, Fr. marg. ‘ That is, worthy of 
his name.” 

2 The entire reading of the verse in the Septuagint is, ‘’Eviyxare ro 
Kugl@ ds0l Osod, eviyxarte ro Kuelo viorg xesav.” ‘* Bring to the Lord, 
ye sons of God, bring to the Lord young rams.” Thus the LXX., as is 
not unusual in other places, render the words for “ Ye sons of the mighty” 
twice ; first, in the vocative case, addressing them, ‘Ysol Qeov, Ye sons of 
God, and then in the accusative case, dsods xesav, young rams, being appa- 
rently doubtful which was the correct rendering, and, therefore, putting 
down both. The Vulgate, Arabic, and Zthiopic, exactly follow them. 
Jerome also reads, ** Afferte Domino filios arietum ;” although he does 
not give a double translation of the original words. But the correct ren- 
dering, we have no doubt, is, ‘‘ Ye sons of the mighty ;” which is just a 
Hebrew idiomatic expression for “‘ Ye mighty ones,” or, ‘* Ye princes ;” 
and to them the inspired writer addresses an invitation to acknowledge and 
worship God from the manifestation of his majesty and power in the won- 
ders of nature. 

% The Hebrew word which Calvin renders “ mighty,” is txdx, elim, a 
word which means gods. The Hebrew word mx, eylim, which means 
rams, nearly resembles it, having only an additional +, yod, and this let- 
ter is often cut off in nouns. 


476 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIX. 


- 


expound it of the angels,’ some of the stars; and others will 
have it, that by the great men who are referred to are meant 
the holy fathers. But David only intended to humble the 
princes of this world, who, being intoxicated with pride, lift 
up their horns against God. This, accordingly, is the reason 
why he introduces God, with a terrific voice, subduing by 
thunders, hail-storms, tempests, and lightnings, these stub- 
born and stiff-necked giants, who, if they are not struck with 
fear, refuse to stand in awe of any power in heaven. We 
see, therefore, why, passing by others, he directs his dis- 
course particularly to the sons of the mighty. The reason 
is, because there is nothing more common with them than to 

abuse their lofty station by impious deeds, while they madly — 
arrogate to themselves every divine prerogative. At least 
that they may modestly submit themselves to God, and, mind- 
ful of their frailty, place their dependence upon his grace, 
it is necessary, as it were, to compel them by force. Dayid, 
therefore, commands them ¢o give strength unto Jehovah, be- 
cause, deluded by their treacherous imaginations, they think 
that the power which they possess is supplied to them from 
some other quarter than from heaven. In short, he exhorts 
them to lay aside their haughtiness, and their false opinion 
about their own strength, and to glorify God as he deserves. 
By the glory of God’s name, (ver. 2,) he means that which is 
worthy of his majesty, of which the great men of this world 
are wont to deprive him. The repetition, also, shows that 
they must be vehemently urged ere a proper acknowledg- 
ment be extorted from them. By the brightness of God's 
sanctuary * is to be understood, not heaven as some think, 
but the tabernacle of the covenant, adorned with the symbols 
of the divine glory, as is evident from the context. And the 


1 The Chaldee paraphrases it thus :—‘ The assembly of angels, sons of 
God,” meaning by God angels, 

2 This translation conveys a somewhat different meena Sa that 
of our English version ; but it iss bed § gin by several critics reads, 
“Tn his beautiful sanctuary” an o> Woe Jehovah with holy rever- 


ence,” or, ‘* Worship Jebovah in orion places of the 

‘‘ Where the Hebrews read nvm,” says Hammond, ‘in the glory or bea 
of holiness, from “1, to honour, or beautify, the LXX. ty evan 
ayig airov, in his holy court, as if it were from 1m, penetrale, thalamus, 


area, a closet, a marriage- -chamber, a court ; oad a so the Latin and Syriac . 
follow them, and the Arabic, in his holy habitation.” 


PSALM XXIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 477 


prophet designedly makes mention of this place, in which the 
true God had manifested himself, that all men, bidding adieu 
to superstition, should betake themselves to the pure worship 
of God. It would not be sufficient to worship any heavenly 
power, but the one and unchangeable God alone must be 
worshipped, which cannot come to pass until the world be 
reclaimed from all foolish inventions and services forged in 
the brains of men. 


3. The voice of Jehovah is upon the waters. David now 
rehearses the wonders of nature which I have previously re- 
ferred to; and well indeed does he celebrate the power of God 
as well as his goodness, in his works. As there is nothing 
in the ordinary course of nature, throughout the whole frame 
of heaven and earth, which does not inyite us to the contem- 
plation of God, he might have brought forward, as in Psalm 
xix. 1, the sun and the stars, and the whole host of heaven, 
and the earth with its riches; but he selects only those works 
of God which prove not only that the world was at first 
created by him, and is governed by his power, but which 
also awaken the torpid, and drag them, as it were, in spite of 
themselves, humbly to adore him; as even Horace was com- 
. pelled, though he was not only a heathen poet, but an Epi- 
curean, and a vile contemner of Deity, to say of himself in one 
of his Odes,—(Lib. I. Ode xxxiv.) 


* A fugitive from heaven and prayer, 
I mocked at all religious fear, 
Deep scienced in the mazy lore. 
Of mad philosophy ; but now 
Hoist sail, and back my voyage plough 
To that blest harbour which I left before. 


* For, lo! that awful heavenly Sire, 
Who frequent cleaves the clouds with fire, 
Parent of day, immortal Jove ; 
Late through the floating fields of air, 
The face of heaven serene and fair, 
His thund’ring steeds, and winged chariot drove,” &c.* 


Experience, too, tells us that those who are most daring in 
' Dr Francis’ Translation of Horace. 


478 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIX. 


their contempt of God are most afraid of thunderings, 
storms, and such like violent commotions. With great pro- 
priety, therefore, does the prophet invite our attention to 
these instances which strike the rude and insensible with 
some sense of the existence of a God,' and rouse them to 

action, however sluggish and regardless they are, He says . 
not that the sun rises from day to day, and sheds abroad his | 
life-giving beams, nor that the rain gently descends to fertilize _ 
the earth with its moisture ; but he brings forward thunders, — 
violent tempests, and such things as smite the hearts of men — 
with dread by their violence. God, it is true, speaks in all © 
his creatures, but here the prophet mentions those sounds 

which rouse us from our drowsiness, or rather our lethargy, 
by the loudness of their noise. We have said, that this 
language is chiefly directed to those who, with stubborn — 
recklessness, cast from them, as far as they can, all thought — 
of God. The very figures which he uses sufficiently declare, — 
that David’s design was to subdue by fear the obstinacy 
which yields not willingly otherwise. Thrice he repeats that 
God’s voice is heard in great and violent tempests, and in 
the subsequent verse he adds, that it is full of power and — 
majesty. 

















5. The voice of Jehovah breaketh the cedars; I say, Jehovah 
breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. 

6. And he maketh Lebanon to skip like a calf, and Sirion like a 
young unicorn. 

7. The voice of Jehovah striketh out [or heweth out] flames of fire. 

8. The voice of Jehovah maketh the wilderness to quake, the voice 
of Jehovah maketh the wilderness of Kadesh to tremble. 


5. The voice of Jehovah breaketh the cedars. We see how 
the prophet, in order to subdue the stubbornness of men, 
shows, by every word, that God is terrible. He also seems 
to rebuke, in passing, the madness of the proud, and of those 
who swell with vain presumption, because they hearken not 
to the voice of God in his thunders, rending the air with 


1 “ Qui contraignent les barbares et gens esbestez sentir qu'il y a un 
Dieu.”—Fr. “ Which constrain the rude and insensible to feel that there 
is a God.” 


PSALM XXIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 479 


lightnings, shaking the lofty mountains, prostrating and 
overthrowing the loftiest trees. What a monstrous thing is 
it, that while all the irrational portion of the creation tremble 
before God, men alone, who are endued with sense and 
reason, are not moved! Moreover, though they possess genius 
and learning, they employ enchantments to shut their ears 
against God’s voice, however powerful, lest it should reach 
their hearts. Philosophers think not that they have reasoned 
skilfully enough about inferior causes, unless they separate 
God very far from his works. It is a diabolical science, how- 
ever, which fixes our contemplations on the works of nature, 
and turns them away from God. If any one who wished to 
know a man should take no notice of his face, but should fix 
his eyes only on the points of his nails, his folly might justly 
be derided. But far greater is the folly of those philoso- 
phers, who, out of mediate and proximate causes, weave them- 
selves vails, lest they should be compelled to acknowledge 
the hand of God, which manifestly displays itself in his 
works. The Psalmist particularly mentions the cedars of 
Lebanon, because lofty and beautiful cedars were to be found 
there. He also refers to Lebanon and Mount Hermon, and to 
the wilderness of Kadesh,' because these places were best known 
to the Jews. He uses, indeed, a highly poetical figure, 
accompanied with a hyperbole, when he says, that Lebanon 
ships like a calf at God's voice, and Sirion (which is also called 
Mount Hermon”) like a unicorn, which, we know, is one of 
the swiftest animals. He also alludes to the terrific noise of 
thunder, which seems almost to shake the mountains to their 
foundations. Similar is the figure, when he says, the Lord 
striketh out flames of fire, which is done when the vapours, 
being struck, as it were, with his hammer, burst forth into 
lightnings and thunderbolts. Aristotle, in his book on 
Meteors, reasons very shrewdly about these things, in so far 
as relates to proximate causes, only that he omits the chief 


1 That is, the wilderness of Zin, Numb. xxxiii. 36. It is described in 
Deut. i. 19, as the “ great and terrible wilderness.” The Israelites passed 
through this wilderness in their way from Egypt to the promised land, 
Numb. xiii. 27. It received its name from the city of Kadesh, by which it 
lay, Numb. xx. 1, 16. 

2 The Sidonians applied to Hermon the name of Sirion, Deut. iii. 9. 


. 


480 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIX. 


point. The investigation of these would, indeed, be both a 
profitable and pleasant exercise, were we led by it, as we 
ought, to the Author of Nature himself. But nothing is more 
preposterous than, when we meet with mediate causes, how- 
ever many, to be stopped and retarded by them, as by so 
many obstacles, from approaching God ;} for this is the same 
as if a man were to remain at the very rudiments of things 
during his whole life, without going farther. In short, 
this is to learn in such a manner that you can never know 
any thing. That shrewdness alone, therefore, is worthy of 
praise, which elevates us by these means even to heaven, 
in order that not a confused noise only may strike our ears, 
but that the voice of the Lord may penetrate our hearts,and ~ 
teach us to pray and serve God. Some expound the Hebrew 
word bom, yachil, which we have translated to tremble, in 
another way, namely, that God maketh the wilderness of 
Kadesh to travail in birth, because of the manifold wonders 
which were wrought in it as the Israelites passed through it. 
But this sense I object to, as far too subtle and strained. 
David appears rather to refer to the common feelings of men ; 
for as wildernesses are dreadful of themselves, they are much 
more so when they are filled with thunders, hail, and storms. 
I do not, however, object that the wilderness may be under- 
stood, by synecdoche, to mean the wild beasts which lodge 
in it; and thus the next verse, where hinds are mentioned, 
may be considered as added by way of exposition. 


9. The voice of Jehovah maketh the hinds to bring forth, and 
discovereth [or maketh bare| the forests, and in his temple 
every one speaketh of his praise. 

10. Jehovah sitteth upon the flood ; Jehovah, I say, sitteth King 
for ever. 

11. Jehovah will give strength to his people ; Jehovah will bless 
his people with peace. 


9. The voice of Jehovah maketh the hinds to bring forth.* 


1 * T)’approcher de Dieu.”—Fr. 

2 “ Fait avortir.”—J’r. ‘* To miscarry or prove abortive.” 

8 Bishop Lowth reads, ‘‘ Maketh the oaks to tremble,” (Lectures on 
Hebrew Poetry, vol. ii. p. 253,).in which he is followed by Dimock, Green, 


_ PSALM XXIX, THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 481 
A tacit comparison, as I have said, is here made. It is worse 
than irrational, it is monstrous, that men are not moved at 
God’s yoice, when it has such power and influence on wild 
beasts. It is base ingratitude, indeed, in men not to per- 
ceive his providence and government in the whole course of 
nature; but it is a detestable insensibility that at least his 
unusual and extraordinary works, which compel even wild 
beasts to obey him, will not teach them wisdom. Some in- 
terpreters think that hinds are mentioned, rather than other 
beasts, on account of their difficulty in bringing forth their 
young; which I disapprove not. The voice of the Lord is 
also said to discover or make bare the forests, either because 
there is no covering which can prevent it from penetrating 
into the most secret recesses and caverns; or, because 
lightnings, rains, and stormy winds, beat off the leaves and 
make the trees bare. Either sense is appropriate. 

In his temple. God's voice fills the whole world, and 
spreads itself to its farthest limits; but the prophet declares 
that his glory is celebrated only in his church, because God 
not only speaks intelligibly and distinctly there, but also 
there gently allures the faithful to himself. His terrible 


Secker, Horsley, Fry, and others. But Dathe, Berlin, De Rossi, Dr 
Adam Clarke, rs, &¢e., adhere to the common interpretation, in which 
they are Sates by all the ancient versions, except the Syriac, which 
seems to favour the view of Lowth. A main argument of Lowth and those 
who follow him in support of his rendering is, that the common translation, 
which supposes the passage to relate to the hinds bringing forth their young, 
= at very little with the rest of the imagery either in nature or dignity ; 
whereas the oak struck with lightning is a far nobler image, and one 
which falls in more naturally with the scattering of a forest’s foliage under 
the action of a storm. But Rogers justly observes, that “we are not 
warranted in altering the Hebrew text, because the oriental imagery 
which we meet with does not correspond with our ideas of poetical beauty 
and grandeur,” (Book of Psalms in Hebrew, metrically arranged, vol. ii. 
p- 186.) With respect to the sense conveyed by the common reading, it 
may be observed, that binds bring forth their young with great difficulty 
and pain, ‘“‘ bowing themselves, bruising their young ones, and casting out 
their sorrows,” (Job xxxix. 4, 6 ;) and it therefore heightens the descrip- 
tion given of the terrific character of the thunder-storm, when the thunder, 
which is here called the voice of God, is represented as causing, through the 
terror which it inspires, the hinds in their pregnant state prematurely to 
drop their young ; although, according to our ideas of poetical imagery, 
this may not accord so si with the other images in the passage, nor ap- 
pear so beautiful and sublime as the image of the oaks trembling at the 
voice of Jehovah. 


VOL. I. 2H 


482 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXIX, 


- 
7 


voice, which thunders in various ways in the air, strikes upon 
the ears, and causes the hearts of men to beat in such a 
manner, as to make them shrink from rather than approach 
him: not to mention that a considerable portion turn a deaf 
ear to its sound in storms, rains, thunder, and lightnings. 
As men, therefore, profit not so much in this common school 
as to submit themselves to God, David wisely says especially 
that the faithful sing the praises of God in his temple, because, 
being familiarly instructed there by his fatherly voice, they 
devote and consecrate themselves wholly to his service. No 
man proclaims the glory of God aright but he who worships him 
willingly. This may be understood likewise as a complaint, in 
which David reproves the whole world of being silent in so far 
as the glory of God is concerned,' and laments, that although 
his voice resounds through all regions, yet his praises are no 
where sung but in his temple alone. He appears, however, 
after the example of all the godly, to exhort the whole of man- 
kind to praise God’s name, and designedly to erect a temple 
as a receptacle for his glory, for the purpose of teaching us, 
that in order truly to know God, and praise him as is his due, 
we need another voice than that which is heard in thunders, 
showers, and storms in the air, in the mountains, and in the 
forests ; for if he teach us not in plain words, and also kindly 
allure us to himself, by giving us a taste of his fatherly love, 
we will continue dumb. It is the doctrine of salvation alone, 
therefore, which cheers our hearts and opens our mouths in 
his praises, by clearly revealing to us his grace, and the 
whole of his will. It is from thence that we must learn how 
we ought to praise him. We may also unquestionably see 
that at that time there was nothing of the light of godliness in 
the whole world, except in Judea. Even philosophers, who 
appeared to approach nearest to the knowledge of God, con- 
tributed nothing whatever that might truly glorify him. All 
that they say concerning religion is not only frigid, but for 
the most part insipid. It is therefore in his word alone that 
there shines forth the truth which may lead us to true piety, 
and to fear and serve God aright.* 


? “ Etant que touche la gloire de Dieu.”—Fr. _ 
2 “ Pour le craindre et servir comme il appartient.”—Fr. 


tt, ee ae 


PSALM XXIX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 483 


10. Jehovah sitteth upon the flood. Some think that David 
here alludes to that memorable instance of God’s vengeance, 
when he drowned the world at once by the flood,' and thus 
testified to all ages that he is the judge of mankind. Lagree 
to this in part, but extend his meaning still farther. In my 
opinion, he prosecutes the former subject, putting us in mind 
that those floods, which still threaten destruction to the 
earth, are controlled by the providence of God in such a way, 
as to make it evident that it is he alone who governs all 
things at all times.? David, therefore, mentions this among 
other proofs of God’s power, that even when the elements 
appear to be mingled and confounded together by the utmost 
fury of the weather, God controls and moderates these com- 
motions from his throne in heaven. He accordingly adds, 
for the sake of explanation, God sits King for ever. 


11. Jehovah will give strength to his people. He returns to 
his former doctrine, namely, that although God exhibits his 
visible power to the view of the whole world indiscriminately, 
yet he exerts it in a peculiar manner in behalf of his elect 
people. Moreover, he here describes him in a very different 
manner from what he did formerly; that is to say, not as one 
who overwhelms with fear and dread those to whom he speaks, 
but as one who upholds, cherishes, and strengthens them. 
By the word strength is to be understood the whole condi- 
tion of man. And thus he intimates that every thing neces- 
sary to the preservation of the life of the godly depends 
entirely upon the grace of God. He amplifies this by the 
word bless; for God is said to bless with peace those whom he 
treats liberally and kindly, so that nothing is awanting to 
the prosperous course of their life, and to their complete 
happiness. From this we may learn, that we ought to stand 
in awe of the majesty of God, in such a manner as, notwith- 


1 “ Par le deluge."—Fr. This is the view taken of the passage by the 
ancient versions. ‘* God,” says the Chaldee, “ in the generation of the 
deluge sat in om ey The Septuagint reads, “ God shall make the 
deluge to be inhabited,” or ‘“‘ make the world habitable after it ;” the Sy- 
riac, ‘‘ God called back the deluge ;” and the Arabic, “‘ God restrained 
the deluge.” Ainsworth reads, “ Jehovah sat at the flood,” and explains 
it as meaning “ Noah's flood.” 

_ * ™ Que c’est luy seul qui gouverne toutes choses en tout temps.”—Fr. 


484 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXX. 


- 


standing, to hope from him all that is necessary to our pros- 
perity ; and let us be assuredly persuaded, that since his 
power is infinite, we are defended by an invincible fortress. 


PSALM XXX. 


David having been delivered from great danger, not only renders thanks 
to God apart by himself, but at the same time invites and exhorts all 
the pious to perform the same duty. He then confesses that he had 
flattered himself too confidently in his prosperity, and that his se- 
curity had justly been chastised. In the third place, having briefly 
expressed his sorrow, he returns again to thanksgiving. 


¥ A psalm sung at the dedication of David’s house. 


Interpreters doubt whether this psalm was composed by David, or by 
some of the prophets after the return of the Jews from the Babylonish 
captivity ; for house means, in their opinion, the temple. But as the title 
expressly mentions David’s name, it is more probable that it is David's 
private house which is here spoken of. Moreover, the supposition enter- 
tained by some, that when he was about to dedicate his palace, he was 
seized with heavy sickness, is founded upon no solid reason. We may 
rather conjecture from what is stated in sacred history, that as soon as 
he had built his royal palace, he dwelt in it quietly and at his ease. 
He said to the prophet Nathan, that he felt ashamed comfortably “to 
dwell within an house of cedar,” while ‘the ark of God dwelt under 
curtains,” (2 Sam. vii. 2.) Besides, to restrict that to sickness which is 
here spoken generally concerning some kind of danger, is altogether 
groundless. It is more probable, that Absalom being dead, and his 
faction extinguished, and the fatal commotion which they had raised put 
down, David celebrated the divine favour toward him, as one who had 
returned from exile to his former station in his kingdom. For he men- 
tions that he was chastised by God’s hand, because, exulting too much 
in his happy estate, and almost intoxicated with it, he falsely and fool- 
ishly promised himself entire freedom from adversity. Moreover, when 
he began to inherit the magnificent and royal palace, of which I have 
just spoken, his kingdom was yet scarcely restored to peace. It was 
not yet time, therefore, for forgetfulness of human frailty to creep upon 
him, which might provoke the wrath of God, and expose him to dangers 
which might bring him to the very verge of destruction. It is not unrea- 
sonable, therefore, to suppose, that in this psalm he celebrates God's favour 


PSALM XXX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 485 


to him in restoring him to his former state. It was necessary again to 
dedicate his house, which had been defiled by the incestuous whoredoms 
of Absalom, and other wickednesses ; and under this word seems to be 
denoted a double blessing, both his restoration to life and to his kingdom : 
as if he had said, that after settling the public affairs of his kingdom, he 
sung this song, and solemnly dedicated his house to God that he might 
live in his own family. But it must be briefly observed concerning this 
ceremony of the law, that as we are very slow and cold in thinking 
of God’s benefits, this exercise was enjoined upon his ancient people, 
that they might understand that there is no pure and lawful use of any 
thing without thanksgiving to God. As by offering the first-fruits to 
God, therefore, they acknowledged that they received the increase of the 
whole year from him, in like manner, by consecrating their houses to 
God, they declared that they were God's tenants, confessing that they 
were strangers, and that it was he who lodged and gave them a habita- 
tion there.’ If a levy for war, therefore, took place, this was a just 
cause of exemption, when any one alleged that he had not yet dedicated 
his house.* Bezides, they were at the same time admonished by this 
ceremony, that every one enjoyed his house aright and regularly, only 
when he so regulated it that it was as it were a sanctuary of God, 
and that true piety and the pure worship of God reigned in it. The 
types of the law have now ceased, but we must still keep to the doctrine 
of Paul, that whatever things God appoints for our use, are still “ sancti- 
fied by the word of God and prayer,” (1 Tim. iv. 4, 5.) 


1. I will extol thee, O Jehovah! for thou hast lifted me up,® 
and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me. 

2. O Jehovah my God! I have cried to thee, and thou hast healed 
me. 

3. O Jehovah! thou hast brought up my soul from the grave ; 
thou hast quickened me from among those who go down' into 
the pit. ; 


1. I will extol thee, O Jehovah ! As David had been brought, 
as it were, from the grave to the life-giving air, he promises 
to extol the name of God. It is God who lifts us up with 
his own hand when we have been plunged into a profound 


1 “Se recognoissans estran et que c’estoit luy qui les y logeoit et 
Rae Ralisdemedtance”—Fr arti fe: 

2 “ Quand homme allegoit qu'il n’avoit encores dedié sa maison.”—Fr, 

% Ainsworth reads, ‘‘ Thou drawn up me,” which he explains to 
mean, “ drawn as out of a pit of waters ;” ‘* for,” says he, ** this word is 
used for ‘ drawing of waters,’ Exod. ii. waters signifying troubles.” ‘sawn, 
Thou hast drawn me up as it were out of a dungeon.” — Rogers’ Book of Psalms. 

' # “D’entre ceux que descendent.”—Fr. 


486 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXX. 


gulf; and therefore it is our duty, on our part, to sing his 
praises with our tongues. By the foes who, he says, obtained 
no matter of rejoicing over him, we may understand both 
domestic and foreign enemies. Although wicked and eyil 
disposed persons flattered him with servile adulation, they at 
the same time cherished secret hatred against him, and were 
ready to insult him as soon as an opportunity should occur. 
In the second verse, he concludes that he was preserved by 
the favour of God, alleging in proof of this, that when he was 
at the very point of death he directed his supplications to 
God alone, and that he immediately felt that he had not done 
soin vain. When God hears our prayers, it is a proof which 
enables us to conclude with certainty that he is the author of 
our salvation, and of the deliverance which we obtain. As the 
Hebrew word §5%, rapha, signifies to heal, interpreters have 
been led, from this consideration, to restrict it to sickness. 
But as it is certain, that it sometimes signifies to restore, or to 
set up again, and is moreover applied to an altar or a house 
when they are said to be repaired or rebuilt, it may properly 
enough mean here any deliverance. The life of man is in 
danger’ in many other ways than merely from disease ; and we 
kiow that it is a form of speech which occurs every where in 
the Psalms, to say that David was restored to life whenever 
the Lord delivered him from any grievous and extreme 
danger. For the sake of amplification, accordingly, he im- 
mediately adds, Thou hast brought up my soul from the grave. 
He reckoned that he could not sufficiently express in words 
the magnitude of the favour which God had conferred upon 
him, unless he compared the darkness of that period to a 
grave and pit, into which he had been forced to throw him- 
self hastily, to protect his life by hiding, until the flame of 
insurrection was quenched. As one restored to life, there- 
fore, he proclaims that he had been marvellously delivered 
from present death, as if he had been restored to life after he 
had been dead. And assuredly, it appears from sacred 
history, how completely he was overwhelmed with despair on 
every side. 





; 
“a 
7 
| 
q 
‘ 
4 
‘ 
: 
: 


—— oe 





PSALM XXX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 487 


4. Sing unto Jehovah, O ye who are his meek ones! and acknow- 
ledge the memorial of his holiness.' 

5. For his anger is only for a moment,? but life is in his 
favour ; weeping will lodge in the evening, and rejoicing 
shall come in the morning. 


4. Sing unto Jehovah. The better to testify his gratitude, 
David calls upon all the saints to join with him in singing the 
praises of God; and under one class he describes the whole 
body. As he had been preserved beyond all expectation, and by 
this instance had been instructed concerning God’s continual 
and infinite goodness towards all the godly, he breaks forth into 
this exhortation, in which he includes the general deliverance 
of the whole church as well as his own. He rehearses not 
only what God had been to himself, but also how bountifully 
and promptly he is accustomed to assist his people. In 
short, confirmed by one particular instance, he turns his 
thoughts to the general truth. The meaning of the Hebrew 
term [[° DN, chasidim, which we have translated meekness, 
by which David often describes the faithful, has been already 
shown in the sixteenth Psalm. Their heavenly adoption ought 
to excite them to the exercise of beneficence, that they may 
imitate their Father’s disposition, “who maketh his sun to rise 
on the evil and on the good,” (Matth. v.45.) There is nothing 
in which men resemble God more truly than in doing good 
to others. The memorial of his holiness, in the second clause 
of the verse, may refer to the tabernacle; as if David had 
exhorted all the children of God to go before the ark of the 
covenant, which was the memorial of God’s presence. The 
Hebrew letter bs lamed, often denotes a place. I readily 
subscribe, however, to their opinion, who think that memorial 
signifies the same thing as name ; for God has assuredly ren- 
dered himself worthy of. remembrance by his works, which 
are a bright representation of his glory, the sight of which 
should stir us up to praise him. 

1 * Ou chantez afin qu'il soit memoire.”—Fr. marg. ‘ Or sing, that he 


may be remembered.” 
Literally, ‘‘ There is but a moment in his anger ;” and this is also the 


. literal rendering of the Hebrew. 


% “ C’est, un long temps.”—Note, Fr. marg. ‘‘ That is, a long time.” 
4 so, lezeker, at the memorial. . 


488 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXX, 


5. For his anger is only for a moment. It is beyond all — 
controversy that life is opposed here to for a moment, and 
consequently signifies long continuance, or the constant pro- 
gress of time from day to day. David thus intimates that if 
God at any time chastise his people, he not only mitigates 
the rigour of their punishment, but is immediately appeased, 
and moderates his anger; whereas he prolongs his kindness 
and favour for a long time. And, as I have already observed, 
he chose rather to couch his discourse in general terms, than 
to speak particularly of himself, that the godly might all 
perceive that this continued manifestation of God’s favour 
belongs to them. We are hereby taught, however, with how 
much meekness of spirit, and with what prompt obedience 
he submitted his back to God’s rod. We know that from 
the very first bloom of youth, during almost his whole life, 
he was so tried by a multiplied accumulation of afflictions, 
that he might have been accounted miserable and wretched 
above all other men; yet in celebrating the goodness of God, 
he acknowledges that he had been lightly afflicted only for 
a short period, and as it were in passing. Now, what 
inspired him with so great meekness and equanimity of mind 
was, that he put a greater value upon God’s benefits, and 
submitted himself more quietly to the endurance of the cross, 
than the world is accustomed to do. If we are prosperous, 
we devour God’s blessings without feeling that they are his, 
or, at least, we indolently allow them to slip away ; but if any 
thing sorrowful or adverse befall us, we immediately complain 
of his severity, as if he had never dealt kindly and merei- 
fully with us. In short, our own fretfulness and impatience 
under affliction makes every minute an age; while, on the 
other hand, our repining and ingratitude lead us to imagine 
that God's favour, however long it may be exercised towards 
us, is but for a moment. It is our own perversity, therefore, 
in reality, which hinders us from perceiving that God’s anger 
is but of short duration, while his favour is continued towards 
us during the whole course of our life. Nor does God in 
vain so often declare that he is merciful and gracious to a 
thousand generations, long-suffering, slow to anger, and ready 
to forgive. And as what he says by the prophet Isaiah has 





PSALM XXX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 489 


a special reference to the kingdom of Christ, it must be daily 
fulfilled, “ For a small moment have I afflicted thee, but with 
everlasting mercies will I gather thee,” (Isa. liv. 7.) Our 
condition in this world, I confess, involves us in such wretched- 
ness, and we are harassed by such a variety of afflictions, that 
scarcely a day passes without some trouble or grief. Moreover, 
amid so many uncertain events, we cannot be otherwise than 
full of daily anxiety and fear. Whithersoever, therefore, men 
turn themselves, a labyrinth of evils surrounds them. But 
however much God may terrify and humble his faithful ser 
yants, with manifold signs of his displeasure, he always be- 
sprinkles them with the sweetness of his favour to moderate 
and assuage their grief. If they weigh, therefore, his anger 
and his favour in an equal balance, they will always find it 
verified, that while the former is but for a moment, the latter 
continues to the end of life; nay, it goes beyond it, for it 
were a grievous mistake to confine the favour of God within 
the boundaries of this transitory life. And it is unquestionably 
certain,’ that none but those whose minds have been raised 
above the world by a taste of heavenly life really experience 
this perpetual and uninterrupted manifestation of the divine 
fayour, which enables them to bear their chastisements with 
cheerfulness. Paul, accordingly, that he may inspire us with 
invincible patience, refers to this in 2 Cor. iv. 17, “For our 
light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far 
more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, while we look 
not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are 
not seen.” In the meantime, it is to be observed that God 
never inflicts such heavy and continued chastisements on his 
people, without frequently mitigating them, and sweetening 
their bitterness with some consolation. Whoever, therefore, 
directs his mind to meditation upon the heavenly life, will 
never faint under his afflictions, however long continued ; and, 
comparing them with the exceeding great and manifold favours 
of God towards him, he will put such honour on the latter 
“as to judge that God’s goodness, in his estimation, outweighs 
his displeasure a hundred-fold. In the second clause, David 


:. * + Et de faict, c’est un poinct tout resolu.”—Fr. 
























490 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXX. | 


- 


repeats the same thing figuratively: Weeping will lodge in the — 
evening, and rejoicing shall come in the morning. He does not 
simply mean, that the affliction would be only for one night, — 
but that if the darkness of adversity should fall upon the people 
of God, as it were, in the evening, or at the setting of the — 
sun, light would soon after arise upon them, to comfort their 
sorrow-stricken spirits. The amount of David’s instruction 
is, that were we not too headstrong, we would acknowledge — 
that the Lord, even when he appears to overwhelm us for a — 
time with the darkness of affliction, always seasonably minis- — 
ters matter of joy, just as the morning arises after the night. 


6. And in my tranquillity! I had said, I shall never be moved. 
7. O Jehovah! in thy good pleasure thow hast established — 
strength to my mountain: thou hast hidden thy face, I~ 
have been terrified. 

8. O Jehovah! I cried to thee, and to my Lord? sibel i 
plication. 

9. What profit is there in my blood, when 1 go down into the 
pit?’ Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy 
truth ? 7 

10. Hear, O Jehovah! and have mercy upon me : O Jehovah! be 
thou my helper, 


6. And in my tranquillity I had said. This is the confes- — 
sion which I formerly mentioned, in which David acknow- 
ledges that he had been justly and deservedly punished for 
his foolish and rash security, in forgetting his mortal and mu-— 
table condition as a man, and in setting his heart too much on - 
prosperity. By the term ¢ranquillity, he means the quiet 
and flourishing state of his kingdom. Some translate the 
Hebrew word —byy, shiluah, which we have rendered éra 
quillity, by abundance, in which sense it is often used in other 
places ; but the word tranquillity agrees better with the con- 
text; as if David had said, When fortune smiled upon me on 


1 “ C'est, en ma prosperite.”—Note, Fr. marg. ‘* That is, in my pre . 
° ” 


2 Our author here uses Dominus; but in the Hebrew it is m=, Yehovah 
3 The Septuagint has “ Eig Ducebogdey,” * to corruption. ” The render- 
ing of Jerome is the same, ‘* In corruptionem.” 


PSALM XXX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 491 


every side, and no danger appeared to occasion fear, my 
mind sunk as it were into a deep sleep, and I flattered my- 
self that my happy condition would continue, and that things 
would always go on in the same course. This carnal con- 
fidence frequently creeps upon the saints when they indulge 
themselves in their prosperity, and so to speak, wallow upon 
their dunghill.! Hence Jeremiah (chap. xxxi. 18) compares 
himself to a wild bullock before the Lord tamed him and 
accustomed him to the yoke. This may at first sight appear 
to be but a small crime, yet we may gather from its punish- 
ment how much it is displeasing to God: nor will we won- 
der at this when we consider the root from which it springs 
and the fruits which it bears. As deaths innumerable con- 
tinually hover before our eyes, and as there are so many 
examples of change to awaken us to fear and caution, those 
must be bewitched with devilish pride who persuade them- 
selyes that their life is privileged above the common lot of 
the world. They see the whole earth jumbled together in 
undistinguishing variety, and its individual parts in a man- 
ner tossed hither and thither; and yet, as if they did not 
belong to the human race, they imagine that they shall 
. always continue stable and liable to no changes. Hence 
that wantonness of the flesh, with which they so licentiously 
indulge their lusts; hence their pride and cruelty, and 
neglect of prayer. How indeed should those flee to God, 
who have no sense of their need to instigate or move them to 
that? The children of God have also a pious security of their 
own, which preserves their minds in tranquillity amidst the 
troublesome storms of the world ; like David, who, although 
he had seen the whole world made to shake, yet leaning 
upon the promise of God, was bound to hope well concern- 
ing the continuance of his kingdom. But although the 
faithful, when raised aloft on the wings of faith, despise . 
adversity, yet, as they consider themselves liable to the 
common troubles of life, they lay their account with enduring 
them,—are every hour prepared to receive wounds,—shake 
off their sluggishness, and exercise themselves in the warfare 


1 “ Qu’ils se mignardent en leur prosperité, et par maniere de dire, crou- 
pissent sur leur fumier.”—/*r. 


492 _ COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXX. 


to which they know that they were appointed,—and with 
humility and fear put themselves under God's protection; nor 
do they consider themselves safe anywhere else than under 
his hand. It was otherwise with David, who, when ensnared 
by the allurements of his prosperous state, promised himself 
unbroken tranquillity not from the word of God but from his 
own feelings. The same thing also occurred to the pious 
King Hezekiah, who, although lately afflicted with a sore 
disease, as soon as all was well and according to his wish, 
was hurried by the vanity of the flesh to pride and vain 
boasting, (2 Chron. xxxii. 24.) By this we are taught to be 
on our guard when in prosperity, that Satan may not be- 
witch us with his flatteries. The more bountifully God 
deals with any one, the more carefully ought he to watch 
against such snares. It is not, indeed, probable that Dayid 
had become so hardened as to despise God and defy all 
misfortunes, like many of the great men of this world, who, 
when immersed among their luxuries and surfeitings, inso- 
lently scoff at all God’s judgments; but an effeminate list- 
lessness having come over his mind, he became more luke- 
warm in prayer, nor did he depend on the favour of God; 
in short, he put too much confidence in his uncertain and — 
transitory prosperity. 


7. O Jehovah ! of thy good pleasure. This verse describes 
the difference which exists between the confidence which is 
founded upon the word of God and the carnal security 
which springs from presumption. True believers, when 
they rely upon God, are not on that account neglectful of 
prayer. On the contrary, looking carefully at the multi- — 
tude of dangers by which they are beset, and the manifold — 
instances of human frailty which pass before their eyes, they 
take warning from them, and pour out their hearts before 
God. The prophet now failed in duty as to this matter; 
because, by anchoring himself on his present wealth and tran- 
quillity, or spreading his sails to the prosperous winds, he 
depended not on the free favour of God in such a manner as to 
be ready at any time to resign into his hands the blessings 
which he had bestowed upon him. The contrast should be 





PSALM XXX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 493 


observed between that confidence of stability which arises 
from the absence of trouble, and that which rests upon the 
gracious favour of God. When David says that strength 
was established to his mountain, some interpreters expound it 
of mount Zion. Others understand by it a stronghold or 
fortified tower, because in old time fortresses were usually 
built upon mountains and lofty places. I understand the 
word metaphorically to signify a solid support, and there- 
fore readily admit that the prophet alludes to mount Zion. 
David thus blames his own folly, because he considered not, as 
he ought to have done, that there was no stability in the nest 
which he had formed for himself, but in God’s good will alone. 
Thou hast hidden thy face. Were he confesses, that, after 
he was deprived of God’s gifts, this served to purge his 
mind as it were by medicine from the disease of perverse 
confidence. A marvellous and incredible method surely, 
that God, by hiding his face, and as it were bringing on 
darkness, should open the eyes of his servant, who saw 
nothing in the broad light of prosperity. But thus it 
is necessary that we be violently shaken, in order to drive 
away the delusions which both stifle our faith and hinder 
our prayers, and which absolutely stupify us with a soothing 
~ infatuation. Andif David had need of such a remedy, let us 
not presume that we are endued with so good a state of heart 
as to render it unprofitable for us to be in want, in order to 
remove from us this carnal confidence, which is as it were a 
diseased repletion which would otherwise suffocate us. We 
have, therefore, no reason to wonder, though God often 
hides his face from us, when the sight of it, even when it 
shines serenely upon us, makes us so wretchedly blind. 


8. O Jehovah! I cried unto thee. Now follows the fruit of 
David's chastisement. He had been previously sleeping pro- 
foundly, and fostering his indolence by forgetfulness; but 
being now awakened all on a sudden with fear and terror, he 
begins to cry to God. As the iron which has contracted rust 
cannot be put to any use until it be heated again in the fire, 
and beaten with the hammer, so in like manner, when carnal 
security has once got the mastery, no one can give himself 


49t COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXX, 


cheerfully to prayer, until he has been softened by the cross, 
and thoroughly subdued. And this is the chief advantage of 
afflictions, that while they make us sensible of our wretched- 
ness, they stimulate us again to supplicate the favour of God. 


9. What profit is there in my blood? Some explain the 
verse after this manner: What will it avail me to have lived, 
unless thou prolongest my life till I shall have finished the 
course of my vocation ? But this exposition seems too strain- 
ed, especially as the term blood here signifies death, not life: 
as if David had said, What profit wilt thou derive from my 
death ? This interpretation is farther confirmed by the fol- 
lowing clause, where he complains that his lifeless body will — 
then be useless for celebrating the praises of God. And he — 
seems expressly to mention the ¢ruth of God, to intimate 
that it would be unsuitable to the character of God to take 
him out of the world by an untimely death, before God had 
accomplished the promise which he had made to him concern- 
ing his future heir. As there is a mutual relation between 
God’s promises and our faith, truth is, as it were, the medium 
by which God openly shows that he does not merely make 
liberal promises to us in words, to feed us with empty hopes, 
and afterwards to disappoint us. Moreover, to obtain a longer 
life, David draws an argument from the praises of God, to cele- 
brate which we are born and nourished : as if he had said, For 
what purpose hast thou created me, O God! but that through 
the whole course of my life I may be a witness and a herald of 
thy grace to set forth the glory of thy name? But my death 
will cut short the continuance of this exercise, and reduce me 
to eternal silence. A question, however, arises here, Does not, 
it may be said, the death of true believers glorify God as 
well as their life? We answer, David speaks not simply of 
death, but adds a circumstance which I have already treated 
of in the sixth Psalm. As God had promised him a suc- 
cessor, the hope of living longer being taken from him, he 
had good reason to be afraid lest this promise should be frus- 
trated by his death, and was therefore compelled to exclaim, 
What profit is there in my blood? It highly concerned the 
glory of God that he should be preserved alive, until by 








PSALM XXX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 495 


obtaining his desire, he should be able to bear witness to 
God’s faithfulness in completely fulfilling his promise to him. 
By inquiring in the end of the verse, Shall the dust praise 
thee ? he does not mean that the dead are altogether deprived 
of power to praise God, as I have already shown in the sixth 
Psalm. If the faithful, while encumbered with a burden of 
flesh, exercise themselves in this pious duty, how should they 
desist from it when they are disencumbered, and set free 
from the restraints of the body ? It ought to be observed, 
therefore, that David does not professedly treat of what the 
dead do, or how they are occupied, but considers only the 
purpose for which we live in this world, which is this, that 
we may mutually show forth to one another the glory of 
God. Having been employed in this exercise to the end 
of our life, death at length comes upon us and shuts our 
mouth. 


10. Hear, O Jehovah! In this clause the Psalmist softens 
and corrects his former complaint; for it would have been 
absurd to expostulate with God like one who despaired of 
safety, and to leave off in this fretful temper. Having asked, 
therefore, with tears, what profit God would derive from his 
~ death, he encourages himself to a more unconstrained manner 
of prayer, and, conceiving new hope, calls upon God for 
mercy and help. He puts God’s favour, however, in the first 
place, from whom alone he could expect the help which he 


1l. Thou hast turned my mourning into dancing ; thou hast 
loosed my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness. 

12. That my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be silent: 
O Jehovah my God! I will set forth thy praise for ever. 


11. Thou hast turned my mourning into dancing. David 
concludes the psalm as he had begun it, with thanksgiving. 
He affirms that it was by the help and blessing of God that 
_ he had escaped safe ; and he then adds, that the final object of 
his escape was, that he might employ the rest of his life in 
celebrating the praises of God. Moreover, he shows us that 










496 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXX. 


he was not insensible or obdurate under his afflictions, but 
mourned in heaviness and sorrow; and he also shows that 
his very mourning had been the means of leading him to — 
pray to God to deprecate his wrath. Both these points — 
are most worthy of our observation, in order, first, that we 
may not suppose that the saints are guilty of stoical in- — 
sensibility, depriving them of all feeling of grief; and, 
secondly, that we may perceive that in their mourning 
they were exercised to repentance. This latter he denotes 
by the term sackcloth. It was a common practice among the 
ancients to clothe themselves with sackcloth when mourning,’ 
for no other reason, indeed, than that like guilty criminals, 
they might approach their heavenly Judge, imploring his 
forgiveness with all humility, and testifying by this cloth- 
ing their humiliation and dissatisfaction with themselves. 
We know also that the orientals were addicted beyond all 
others to ceremonies. We perceive, therefore, that David, 
although he patiently submitted himself to God, was not free 
from grief. We also see that his sorrow was “ after a godly 
sort,” as Paul speaks, (2 Cor. vii. 10;) for to testify his 
penitence he clothed himself with sackcloth. By the term 
dancing, he does not mean any wanton or profane leaping, but 
a sober and holy exhibition of joy like that which sacred 
Scripture mentions when David conveyed the ark of the 
covenant to its place, (2 Sam. vi. 16.) If we may conjecture, 
however, we may gather from this, that the great danger of 
which David speaks in this psalm is by some improperly 
restricted to sickness, as it was very improbable that he 
would put on sackcloth when he was confined to a sick-bed. 
This, indeed, would not be a sufficient reason of itself, but in 
a doubtful case, as this is, it is not destitute of force. David 


1 This custom was not confined to the Israelites. It was ised also 
among the heathen nations. An instance of this is recorded in Jonah iii. 
5-8. It appears from Plutarch, that this was also sometimes 
smong Se Greeks. The Hebrew word for sackcloth is pw, sak; and it is 
remarkable that the word sak exists in various langu denoting the 
same thing. It shows the unaffected character of sorrow, leadi 
men to neglect the ae of their persons, when we find several nations 
manifesting it by wearing the same dismal garb, and employing a word of 
the same sound to express it. 

* “ Ne monstrant qu’abjection et desplaisance d’eux-mesmes.”—Fr, 


PSALM XXX. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 497 


therefore means, that, laying aside his mourning apparel, he 
returned from a state of heaviness and sorrow to joy; and 
this he ascribes to the grace of God alone, asserting that he 
had been his deliverer. 


12. That my glory may sing praise to thee. In this verse 
he more fully expresses his acknowledgment of the purpose 
for which God had preserved him from death, and that he 
would be careful to render him a proper return of gratitude. 
Some refer the word glory to the body, and some to the soul, 
or the higher powers of the mind. Others, as the pronoun 
my, which we have supplied, is not in the Hebrew text, pre- © 
fer to translate it in the accusative case, supplying the word 
every man, in this way: That every man may celebrate thy 
glory ; as if the prophet had said, This is a blessing worthy of 
being celebrated by the public praises of all men. But as all 
these interpretations are strained, I adhere to the sense which 
Ihave given. The Hebrew word 9\35, kebod, which signi- 
fies glory, it is well known, is sometimes employed metapho- 
rically to signify the tongue, as we have seen in Psalm xvi. 9. 
And as Dayid adds immediately after, I will celebrate thy 
praise for ever, the context demands that he should parti- 
cularly speak of his own duty in this place. His meaning, 
therefore, is, O Lord, as I know that thou hast preserved me 
for this purpose, that thy praises may resound from my 
tongue, I will faithfully discharge this service to thee, and 
perform my part even unto death. To sing, and not be silent, 
is a Hebrew amplification ; as if he had said, My tongue shall 
not be mute, or deprive God of his due praise; it shall, on 
the contrary, devote itself to the celebration of his glory. 


VOL. I. 21 


498 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXI. 


PSALM XXXI. 


Dayid, having been delivered from some great danger, or rather from 
many dangers, first relates the prayers which he had offered up to God 
amidst the terrors of death. He then subjoins his thanksgiving, which 
is no ordinary one; for he celebrates his deliverance at great length, 
and exhorts all the saints to be of good hope, as they had in him a 
most excellent and memorable example of God’s goodness. 


{ To the chief musician. A psalm of David. 


1. In thee, O Jehovah ! have I put my trust, let me not be ashamed 
for ever: deliver me in thy righteousness. 

2. Incline thine ear unto me, deliver me speedily; be unto me a 
strong rock, a house of defence to save me. 

3. For thou art my rock and my fortress: and jor thy name's 
sake thou wilt lead and guide me.' 

4, Pluck me out of the net which they have hidden for me; for 
thou art my strength. 


1. In thee, O Jehovah! have I put my trust. Some are of 
opinion that this psalm was composed by David, after he had 
most unexpectedly escaped out of the wilderness of Maon; 
to which I do not object, although it is only a doubtful con- 
jecture. Certainly he celebrates one or more of the greatest 
of his dangers. In the commencement he tells us what kind 
of prayer he offered in his agony and distress; and its lan- 
guage breathes affection of the most ardent nature. He takes 
it for a ground of hope that he trusted in the Lord, or con- 
tinued to trust in him ; for the verb in the past tense seems 
to denote a continued act.. He held it as a principle, that 
the hope which depends upon God cannot possibly be disap- 
pointed. Meanwhile, we see how he brings forward nothing 
but faith alone; promising himself deliverance only because 
he is persuaded that he will be saved by the help and favour 


1 * On, adresse moy et conduy.”—Fr. marg. “Or, do thou direct and 
guide me,” 





[ears 


PSALM XXXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 499 


of God. But as this doctrine has been expounded already, 
and will yet occur oftener than once, it is sufficient at pre- 
sent to have glanced at it. Oh! that all of us would prac- 
tise it in such a manner as that, whenever we approach to God, 
we may be able with David to declare that our prayers pro- 
ceed from this source, namely, from a firm persuasion that our 
safety depends on the power of God. The particle signify- 
ing for ever may be explained in two ways. As God some- 
times withdraws his favour, the meaning may not unsuitably 
be, Although I am now deprived of thy help, yet cast me not 
off utterly, or for evermore. Thus David, wishing to arm 
himself with patience against his temptations, would make a 
contrast between these two things,—being in distress for a 
time, and remaining ina state of confusion. But if any one 
choose rather to understand his words in this way, “ What- 
ever afflictions befall me, may God be ready to help me, and 
everandanon stretch forth his hand to me, as the case requires,” 
I would not reject this meaning any more than the other. 
David desires to be delivered in the righteousness of God, because 
God displays his righteousness in performing his promise to 
his servants. It is too much refinement of reasoning to assert 
that David here betakes himself to the righteousness which 
God freely bestows on his people, because his own righteous- 
ness by works was of no avail. Still more out of place is 
the opinion of those who think that God preserves the saints 
according to his righteousness ; that is to say, because having 
acted so meritoriously, justice requires that they should obtain 
their reward. It is easy to see from the frequent use of the 
term in The Psalms, that God’s righteousness means his faith- 
fulness, in the exercise of which he defends all his people who 
commit themselves to his guardianship and protection. David, 
therefore, confirms his hope from the consideration of the 
nature of God, who cannot deny himself, and who ways 
continues like himself. 


2. Incline thine ear unto me. These words express with 
how much ardour David's soul was stimulated to pray. He 


‘* Feroit une antithese entre ces deux choses, Estre en Pi Bes. pour 
vn ‘ride et demeurer confus.” 


500 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXI. 


affects no splendid or ornate language, as rhetoricians are — 
wont to do; but only describes in suitable figures the vehe- _ 
mence of his desire. In praying that he may be delivered 
speedily there is shown the greatness of his danger, as if he 
had said, All will soon be over with my life, unless God make 
haste to help me. By the words, house of defence, fortress, and 
rock, he intimates, that, being unable to resist his enemies, 
his hope rests only on the protection of God. 


3. For thou art my rock. This verse may be read as one 
sentence, thus: As thou art like a tower for my defence, for 
thy name’s sake direct and guide me during my whole life. 
And thus the conjunction, as in many similar cases, would be 
superfluous. But I rather prefer a different sense, namely, 
that David, by interjecting this reflection, encourages himself 
not only to earnestness in prayer, but also in the confident — 
hope of obtaining his requests. We know, at all events, — 
that it is usual with him to mingle such things in his prayers 
as may serve to remove his doubts, and to confirm his assur- 
ance. Having, therefore, expressed his need, he assures 
himself, in order to encourage and animate himself, that 
his prayer shall certainly have a happy answer. He had 
formerly said, Be thou my strong rock and fortress; and now 
he adds, Assuredly thou art my rock and my fortress: inti- — 
mating, that he did not throw out these words rashly, like 
unbelievers, who, although they are accustomed to ask much 
from God, are kept in suspense by the dread of uncertain 
events. From this he also draws another encouragement, 
that he shall have God for his guide and governor during the — 
whole course of his life. He uses two words, lead and guide, — 
to express the same thing, and this he does (at least so I 
explain it) on account of the various accidents and unequal 
vicissitudes by which the lives of men are tried: as if he had 
said, Whether I must climb the steep mountain, or struggle 
along through rough places, or walk among thorns, I trust 
that thou wilt be my continual guide. Moreover, as men 
will always find in themselves matter for doubt, if they look 
to their own merits,’ David expressly asks that God may be 


1 “Si les hommes regardent & leur dignite,”—F’r 





PSALM XXXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 501 


induced to help him for his own name's sake, or from regard to 
his own glory, as, properly speaking, there is no other thing 
which can induce him to aid us. It must therefore be 
remembered, that God’s name, as it is opposed to all merit 
whatever, is the only cause of our salvation. In the next 
verse, under the metaphor of a net, he appears to designate 
the snares and artifices with which his enemies encompassed 
him. We know that conspiracies were frequently formed 
against his life, which would have left him no room for 
escape; and as his enemies were deeply skilled in policy, 
and hating him with an inconceivable hatred, were eagerly 
bent on his destruction, it was impossible for him to be 
saved from them by any human power. On this account he 
calls God his strength ; as if he had said, He alone is sufficient 
to rend asunder all the snares with which he sees his afflicted 


people entangled. 


5. Into thy hand I commit my spirit, for thou hast redeemed me, 
O Jehovah! God of truth. 

6. I hate all that give heed to lying vanities ; but I have trusted 
in Jehovah. 

7. I will be glad and rejoice in thy goodness, because thou hast 
regarded my affliction: thou hast known my soul in dis- 
tresses. 

8. And thou hast not shut me up in the hand of mine enemy :} 
thou hast set my feet in a large place. 


5. Into thy hand I commit my spirit. David again declares 
his faith to God, and affirms that he had such high thoughts 
of his providence, as to cast all his cares upon it. Whoever 
commits himself into God’s hand and to his guardianship, 
not only constitutes him the arbiter of life and death to him, 
but also calmly depends on him for protection amidst all his 
dangers. ‘The verb is in the future tense, “I will commit,” 
and it unquestionably denotes a continued act, and is there- 
fore fitly translated into the present tense. It is also to be 


1 Dr Geddes observes, that this is the literal translation of the Hebrew 
words ; ‘* but,” says he, “as negative propositions in Hebrew are often 
equivalent i in sense to opposite positives, I deemed it better to use an 
equivalent as more Pans sy to what precedes and follows.” His render- 
‘ing is, “ Rescued me from the hand of mine enemy.” 


502 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII. 


observed, that no man can possibly commit his life to God — 
with sincerity, but he who considers himself exposed to a 
thousand deaths, and that his life hangs by a thread, or differs 
almost nothing from a breath which passes suddenly away. 
David being thus at the point of despair, leaves nothing to 
himself to do but this—to go on his way, trusting in God as 
the keeper and governor of his life. It is marvellous, that, 
although many things distress us all, scarcely one in a hun- 
dred is so wise as to commit his life into God’s hand. Multi- 
tudes live from day to day as merry and careless as if they 
were in a quiet nest, free from all disturbance; but as soon 
as they encounter any thing to terrify them, they are ready 
to die for anguish. It thus happens that they never betake 
themselves to God, either because they deceive themselves 
with vain delusions, flattering themselves that all will yet be 
well,! or because they are so stricken with dread and stupi- 
fied with amazement, that they have no desire for his fatherly 
care. Farther, as various tempests of grief disturb us, 
and even sometimes throw us down headlong, or drag us 
from the direct path of duty, or at least remove us from 
our post, the only remedy which exists for setting these 
things at rest is to consider that God, who is the author of 
our life, is also its preserver. ‘This, then, is the only means 
of lightening all our burdens, and preserving us from being 
swallowed up of over-much sorrow. Seeing, therefore, that 
God condescends to undertake the care of our lives, and to 
support them, although they are often exposed to various 
sorts of death, let us learn always to flee to this asylum; nay, 
the more that any one is exposed to dangers, let him exercise 
himself the more carefully in meditating on it. In short, let 
this be our shield against all dangerous attacks—our haven 
amidst all tossings and tempests—that, although our safety 
may be beyond all human hope, God is the faithful guardian 
of it; and let this again arouse us to prayer, that he would 
defend us, and make our deliverance sure. This confidence — 
will likewise make every man forward to discharge his duty 

with alacrity, and constantly and fearlessly to struggle on- — 


' “Se faisans & croire que de leur faict ce ne sera que triomphe.”—Fr. 





PSALM XXXL. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 503 


ward to the end of his course. How does it happen that 
so many are slothful and indifferent, and that others perfi- 
diously forsake their duty, but because, overwhelmed with 
anxiety, they are terrified at dangers and inconveniences, 
and leaye no room for the operation of the providence of 
God? 

To conclude, whoever relies not on the providence of God, so 
as to commit his life to its faithful guardianship, has not yet 
learned aright what it is to live. On the other hand, he who 
shall entrust the keeping of his life to God’s care, will not 
doubt of its safety even in the midst of death. We must 
therefore put our life into God’s hand, not only that he may 
keep it safely in this world, but also that he may preserve it 
from destruction in death itself, as Christ’s own example has 
taught us. As David wished to have his life prolonged amidst 
the dangers of death, so Christ passed out of this transitory 
life that his soul might be saved in death. This is a general 
prayer, therefore, in which the faithful commit their lives to 
God, first, that he may protect them by his power, so long as 
they are exposed to the dangers of this world ; and, secondly, 
that he may preserve them safe in the grave, where nothing is 
to be seen but destruction. We ought farther to assure our- 
selves, that we are not forsaken of God either in life or in 
death ; for those whom God brings safely by his power to the 

end of their course, he at last receives to himself at their death. 
This is one of the principal places of Scripture which are most 
suitable for correcting distrust. It teaches us, first, that the 
faithful ought not to torment themselves above measure with 
unhappy cares and anxieties ; and, secondly, that they should 
not be so distracted with fear as to cease from performing 
their duty, nor decline and faint in such a manner as to grasp 
at vain hopes and deceitful helps, nor give way to fears and 
alarms ; and, in fine, that they should not be afraid of death, 
which, though it destroys the body, cannot extinguish the 
soul. This, indeed, ought to be our principal argument for 
overcoming all temptations, that Christ, when commending 
his soul to his Father, undertook the guardianship of the 
souls of all his people. Stephen, therefore, calls upon him 
. to be his keeper, saying, “ Lord Jesus, receive my spirit,” 


504 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXI. — 


- 


(Acts vii. 59.) As the soul is the seat of life, it is on this 
account, as is well known, used to signify life. 

Thou hast redeemed me. Some translate the past tense here 
into the future ; but, in my opinion, without any reason. For 
it is evident to me, that David is here encouraging himself to 
continued confidence in God, by calling to remembrance the 
proofs of his favour which he had already experienced.’ It 
is no small encouragement to us for the future, to be assur- 
edly persuaded that God will watch over our life, because he 
hath been our deliverer already. Hence the epithet by which 
David recognises God. He calls him ¢rue or faithful, because 
he believes that he will continue the same to him for ever that 
he has already been. Accordingly, this is as it were a bond by 
which he joins to the former benefits which God had conferred 
upon him confidence in prayer, and the hope of aid for the 
time to come: as if he had said, Lord, thou who art ever the 
same, and changest not thy mind like men, hast already 
testified in very deed that thou art the defender of my life: 
now, therefore, 1 commit my life, of which thou hast been 
the preserver, into thy hands. What David here declares 
concerning his temporal life, Paul transfers to eternal salva- 
tion. “I know,” says he, “ whom I have believed, and am 
persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have commit- 
ted to him,” (2 Tim. i. 12.) And surely, if David derived so 
much confidence from temporal deliverance, it is more than 
wicked and ungrateful on our part, if the redemption pur- 
chased by the blood of Christ does not furnish us with invin- 
cible courage against all the devices of Satan. 


6. I hate all that give heed to lying vanities. In order the 
better to express that his faith was firmly fixed on God, he 
affirms that he was free from the vile affections which usually 
turn away our minds from God, and under which unbelievers 
for the most part labour. For we know that by contrasting 
things which are opposite, a subject is better illustrated. To 
restrict the Hebrew word b>, hebel, which we have rendered 


1 Horsley, while his translation is similar to that of Calvin, “* Thou hast — 
delivered me,” takes a somewhat different view of the meaning. “ Thou 
hast, i. e., Thou most surely wilt.—The thing is as certain asifit were done.” — 





PSALM XXXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 505 


vanities, to magical arts, as some interpreters do, is absurd. I 
confess, indeed, that the Orientals were so much addicted to 
these impostures, that it wasa common evil among them. But 
as the devices by which Satan ensnares the minds of men, and 
the allurements by which he draws them away from God, are 
innumerable, it is not at all probable that the prophet mentions 
one species only. Whatever vain hopes, therefore, we form 
to ourselves, which may draw us off from our confidence in 
God, David generally denominates vanities, yea, false or lying 
vanities, because, although they feed us for a time with mag- 
nificent promises, in the end they beguile and disappoint us. 
He affirms, therefore, that casting away the vanities which 
men usually invent to support their hopes, he relies solely on 
God. And as men not only intoxicate themselves personally 
with the deceitful allurements of the world, but in this respect 
also deceive one another, the prophet expressly declares, with 
a view that we may carefully avoid them, unless we wish to be 
wilfully entangled in their dangerous toils, that he hated all 
who involved themselves in such lies. The second clause, 
I have trusted in Jehovah, must be read in connection with the 
first, because it both assigns the cause of his hatred of lying 
vanities, and shows that it is impossible for men to have any 


> true faith in God, unless they abhor whatever would draw 


them away from him. 


7. Iwill be glad and rejoice in thy goodness. Here is in- 
serted a thanksgiving, although many are rather of opinion 
that Davyid’s prayer is suspended, and that he makes a vow, 
when he shall be delivered from present danger. But as no 
condition is annexed, I am rather inclined to think that stop- 
ping all at once in the middle of his prayer, he promises 


1 Hammond considers “ vanities” as referring to the practice of super- 
stitiously having recourse to auguries and divinations for advice and direc- 
tion, a which prevailed among the heathen, when they met with 
any difficulty or danger. To the responses of augury they showed the 
greatest ; although they were deceived and disappointed in the 
confidence which they reposed in them. David declares that he detested 
all such practices, and trusted for aid to God alone. French and Skinner, 
by lying vanities, understand idols. ‘+ Idols,” says Walford, “ are often 
thus denominated ; though the term is not to be confined to this sense, as 
all the pursuits of iniquity may be justly comprehended under it.— Vide 
Deut. xxxii. 21; Jonah ii. 8.” 


506 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXT. 


himself a deliverance, for which he will have abundant matter 
for giving thanks. Nor is it to be wondered at that different 
feelings are mingled in the psalms in which David has set 
forth his own temptations, as well as the resistance which his 
faith made to them, considering also that when he sung the 
praises of God, after having already obtained deliverance 
from him, he embraces different periods in his song, as he — 
here says, that God had regarded his affliction, intimating by 
this the effect of the assistance which God had afforded him. — 
And that he may the better confirm this, he adds, that he 
had not been delivered into the hands of his enemies: in which 
words there is an implied antithesis, namely, that when he 
was encompassed on every side by severe afflictions, he was 
marvellously delivered by God. This is also farther inti- 
mated by the following sentence, Thou hast set my feet in — 
a large place, which denotes a sudden and unexpected change. 


9. Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah! for I am in trouble: mine 
eye, my soul, and my belly, are consumed by reason of 
anger. 

10. For my life is wasted by reason of grief, and my years with 
groaning: my strength faileth in my sorrow, and my bones 
are consumed, 

11. I was a reproach by reason of all mine enemies, yea, exceed- 
ingly to my neighbours, and a fear to my acquaintances; 
and they who saw me abroad fled from me, 

12. I am forgotten as one dead, I am become like a broken vessel. 

13. For I have heard the railing of many,? and fear encloseth 
me on every side, while they consult together against me, 
and plot to take away my life. 


9. Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah! To move God to 
succour him, he magnifies the greatness of his misery and 
grief by the number of his complaints; not that God needs” 
arguments to persuade him, but because he allows the faith- 
ful to deal familiarly with him, that they may disburden 
themselves of their cares. The greater the number of afflic- 


1 “ There is a contrast in the expression between the straits to which . 
had been confined, and the freedom which was now bestowed upon him.” 
— Walford. 

2 “ Ou, des grans.”"—-Fr. marg. ‘ Or, of the great.” 


4 





PSALM XXXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 507 


tions with which they are oppressed, the more do they en- 
courage themselves, while bewailing them before God, in the 
hope of obtaining his assistance. These forms of expression 
may seem hyperbolical, but it is obvious that it was David’s 
purpose to declare and set forth what he had felt in his own 
person. First, he says that his eyes, his soul, and his belly, were 
consumed with grief. From this it appears that it was nei- 
ther lightly nor for a short time that he was thus tormented 
and vexed by these calamities. Indeed, he was endued with 
so much meekness of spirit that he would not allow himself to 
be excited easily, and by a slight circumstance, nor vexed by 
immoderate sorrow. He had also been for a long time inured 
to the endurance of troubles. We must, therefore, admit that 
his afflictions were incredibly severe, when he gave way to 
such a degree of passion. By the word anger, too, he shows 
that he was not at all times of such iron-like firmness, or so 
free from sinful passion, as that his grief did not now and 
then break forth into an excess of impetuosity and keenness. 
Whence we infer that the saints have often a severe and ar- 
duous conflict with their own passions; and that although 
their patience has not always been free from peevishness, yet 
by carefully wrestling against it, they have at last attained 
this much, that no accumulation of troubles has overwhelmed 
them. By Uife some understand the vital senses, an interpre- 
tation which I do not altogether reject. But I prefer to ex- 
plain it as simply meaning, that, being consumed with grief, 
he felt his life and his years sliding away and failing. And 
by these words again, David bewails not so much his pusilla- 
nimity of mind as the grievousness of his calamities; al- 
though he was by no means ashamed to confess his infirmity, 
for which he was anxiously seeking a remedy. When he 
says, that his strength failed under his sorrow, some inter- 
preters prefer reading, under his iniquity; and I confess that 
the Hebrew word }\y, on, bears both significations,' nay, more 


1 « The word py,” says Hammond, “ as it signifies sin, so it signifies 
also the punishment of sin, Isa. liii. 6, 11 ;” and in this last sense this critic 
here understands it, that it may be connected with grief and sighing, which 
are mentioned in the — clause, and may express those miseries 
which David's sins had brought upon him. “ p,” observes Rogers, “ sig- 
nifies here and in some other places, affliction, the punishment or conse- 





























508 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXL 


frequently it signifies an offence or a fault. But as it is some- 
times used for punishment, I have chosen the sense which ap-— 

pears most agreeable to the context. And although it is true 
that David was accustomed to ascribe the afflictions which he 
at any time suffered to his own fault, yet, as he is only re- 
counting his miseries here, without mentioning the cause of 
them, it is probable that, according to his usual manner, he — 
expresses the same thing twice by different words. Ag 


11. I was a reproach by reason of all mine enemies. Others 
translate thus—more than mine enemies, and as the Hebrew 
letter §, mem, is often used as a sign of comparison, they in- 
terpret this clause to mean that David's friends and acquaint-— 
ances reproached him more than all his enemies. But, inmy — 
opinion, he intended to express a different idea, namely, that ' 
as he was everywhere hated, and his enemies had induced 
almost the whole realm to take part with them against him, 
he had an evil name even among his friends and neighbours ; ; 
just as popular opinion, like a violent tempest, usually carries 
all before it. I suppose, therefore, that the Hebrew copula 
), vau, is used for the sake of amplification, to show that 
David was an object of detestation, not only to strangers to” 
whom he was formerly unknown, but also to his principal 
friends. He adds, likewise, that when they saw him abroad 
they fled from him. By the adverb, abroad, he means to say, — 
that they did not think the miserable man worthy of a near — 
approach to them; nay, that they fled from the very sight of 
him, at however great a distance, lest the contagion of his 
misery should reach them, and because they reckoned it would — 
be injurious and disgraceful to them to show him any “- 
of friendship. | 


12. I am forgotten as one dead. The Psalmist still pursues 
the same idea, and complains that he was as completely 
blotted out of all men’s remembrance as if he had been dead. 


ence of sin; see Gen. iv. 13; 1 Sam. xxviii. 10; 2 Kings vii. 9,” &e.— 
Book of Psalms in Hebrew, metrically arranged, vol. ii. p. 188. The Se] 


PSALM XXXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 509 


The memory of some men after their death flourishes for a 
time among survivors, but it more frequently vanishes ; for 
there is no longer any intercourse between the quick and 
the dead, nor can the living be of any farther service to the 
dead. David illustrates this idea by the metaphor of a broken 
vessel,’ which denotes utter contempt and meanness; as if he 
had said, that he was accounted no longer worthy of any 
place or respect. He adds, in fine, that he was railed upon 
by the multitude, and agitated with terrors. I would, how- 
ever, prefer translating the Hebrew word D°A", rabbim, by the 
great,’ rather than by many. When great men, who are often 
as powerful in judgment as in authority, slander and defame 
us as wicked persons, this adds to the indignity with which we 
are treated, because, whatever they say in condemnation of us 
has the effect of prejudicing the common people against us. It 
will therefore be very suitable to understand the words as 
meaning that David was ignominiously condemned by the 
whole order of the nobility; and thus the innocence of this 
afflicted man was thrown into the shade by their greatness. 
This interpretation is confirmed by what immediately follows : 
Fear encloseth me on every side,* while they consult together 
against me. As he is still speaking of the same persons, it is 
certain that this language applies more appropriately to the 
nobles than to the common people. Moreover, we see that 
the primary object of the wicked in the deceitful counsels by 
which they conspired to destroy David, was to create among 
the whole people hatred against him as a wicked and reprobate, 
man. We also see that while they mangled his reputation, 
they did it in such a manner. as that they covered their 


1 “T am become like a broken vessel ;” that is, utterly neglected as 

ing worthless. 

2 Horsley takes the same view. He reads, “ the por Ay! 

8 Fearfulness on every side, or terror round about. Heb., ma 
missabib, which name Jeremiah gave to Pashur the priest, signifying that 
he ‘should be a terror to hi and to all his friends,’ Jer. xx. 3, 4.”"— 
Ainsworth. Horsley reads, 

“Truly I heard the angry muttering of the migh 
Of them that are the general dread.” spite 
On this Bee Eg sing pote “mo a:s00. I take this to be a 
hrase describing the mighty, whose malignant threats against him he over- 
sry as persons wre dreaded for their power and their cruelty.” 




























510 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXI._ 


wickedness under the appearance of grave and considerate 
procedure, in consulting among themselves to destroy him as a_ 
man who no longer ought to be tolerated on the earth. It is — 
not to be wondered at, therefore, that his mind was wounded, — 
as we have just seen, by so many and so sharp temptations. 
14. Yet have I trusted in thee, O Jehovah! I have said, Thou ¢ 
my God. ely 
15. My times are in thy hand; deliver me from the hand oft 
mine enemies, and from them that persecute me. 
16. Make thy face to shine upon thy servant ; preserve me in thy : 
goodness. 
17. O Jehovah! let me not be ashamed; for I have called on 
thee : let the wicked be ashamed, let them be silent in the 
grave. 
18. Let lying lips be put to silence, which speak a hard [or 4 
grievous] thing against the just, in pride and scorn. " 


- 


14. Yet have I trusted in thee, O Jehovah! The render-— 
ing properly is, And I have trusted in thee; but the Hebrew 
copulative particle }, vau, and, is used here instead of the 
adversative particle yet, or nevertheless. David, setting the 
stedfastness of his faith in opposition to the assaults of the — 
temptations of which he has made mention, denies that he — 
had ever fainted, but rather maintains, on the contrary, that — 
he stood firm in his hope of deliverance from God. Nor 
does this imply that he boasted of being so magnanimous — 
and courageous that he could not be overthrown through the 
infirmity of the flesh. However contrary to one another they 
appear, yet these things are often joined together, as they 
ought to be, in the same person, namely, that while he pines” 
away with grief, and is deprived of all strength, he is neyer- 
theless supported by so strong a hope that he ceases not to call 
upon God. Dayid, therefore, was not so overwhelmed in deep : 
sorrow, and other direful sufferings, as that the hidden light 
of faith could not shine inwardly in his heart; nor did he 
groan so much under the weighty load of his temptations, as 
to be prevented from arousing himself to call upon God, 
He struggled through many obstacles to be able to make the 
confession which he here makes. He next defines the man 


PSALM XXXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 511 


of his faith, namely, that he reflected with himself thus—that 
God would never fail him nor forsake him. Let us mark 
his manner of speech: I have said, Thou art my God. In 
these words he intimates that he was so entirely persuaded 
of this truth, that God was his God, that he would not ad- 
mit even a suggestion to the contrary. And until this per- 
suasion prevails so as to take possession of our minds, we 
shall always waver in uncertainty. It is, however, to be 
observed, that this declaration is not only inward and secret 
—made rather in the heart than with the tongue—but that 
it is directed to God himself, as to him who is the alone wit- 
ness of it. Nothing is more difficult, when we see our faith 
derided by the whole world, than to direct our speech to 
God only, and to rest satisfied with this testimony which our 
conscience gives us, that he is our God. And certainly it is 
an undoubted proof of genuine faith, when, however fierce 
the waves are which beat against us, and however sore the 
assaults by which we are shaken, we hold fast this as a fixed 
principle, that we are constantly under the protection of 
God, and can say to him freely, Thou art our God. 


15. My times are in thy hand. That he might the more 
cheerfully commit the preservation of his person to God, he 
assures us, that, trusting to his divine guardianship, he did 
not trouble himself about those casual and unforeseen events 
which men commonly dread. The import of his language is, 
Lord, it is thy prerogative, and thou alone hast the power, 
to dispose of both my life and my death. Nor does he use 
the plural number, in my opinion, without reason ; but rather 
to mark the variety of casualties by which the life of man 
is usually harassed. It is a cold exposition to restrict the 

phrase, my times, to the time which he had to live, as if 
David meant no more than that his time or his days on 
earth were in God’s hand. On the contrary, I am of opi- 
nion that, while he mused on the various revolutions and 
manifold dangers which continually hang over us, and the 
manifold unlooked-for events which from time to time hap- 
pen, he nevertheless confidently reposed upon the providence 
of God, which he believed to be, according to the common 


512 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM 








saying, the arbiter both of good and of evil fortune. In the 
first clause we see that he not only denominates God the 
governor of the world in general, but also affirms that hi: 

life is in his hand; and not only so, but that to whatever 
agitations it might be subjected, and whatever trials andl 
vicissitudes might befall him, he was safe under his protec~ 
tion. On this he founds his prayer, that God would | ag? 

serve and deliver him from the hand of his enemies. f 


16. Make thy face to shine upon thy servant. We have © 
said formerly, and we shall see in many instances hereafter, 
that this form of speech is taken from the common appre- 
hension of men, who think that God regards them not, un- — 
less he really show his care of them by its effects. Accord-— 
ing to the judgment of sense, afflictions hide his countenance, 
just as clouds obscure the brightness of the sun. Dayid 
therefore supplicates that God, by affording him immediate — 
assistance, would make it evident to him that he enjoyed 
his grace and favour, which it is not very easy to discern 
amidst the darkness of afflictions. Now, God is said to lift the 
light of his countenance upon us in two ways; either when 
he opens his eyes to take care of our affairs, or when he ~ 
shows to us his favour. These two things are indeed insep- — 
arable, or rather, the one depends upon the other. But by — 
the first mode of speech, we, according to our carnal concep- — 
tions, attribute to God a mutability which, properly speaking, 
does not belong to him: whereas the second form of speech 
indicates, that our own eyes, rather than the eyes of God, 
are shut or heavy when he seems to have no regard to our 
afflictions. By the word preserve David explains what he 
meant by the former expression; but as there was at that 
time no way of safety apparent to him, he encourages him- — 
self to hope for it by petting before him the goodness of God. 


17. O Jehovah! let me not be ashamed. In these words, 
the Psalmist continues his prayer, and to strengthen his — 
hopes, he contrasts himself with his enemies; for it would 
have been more than absurd to permit those who by their 
wickedness so openly provoked the wrath of God to escape — 


PSALM XXXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 513 


with impunity, and that one who was innocent and relied 
upon God should be disappointed and made a laughing- 
stock. Here, accordingly, we perceive what the Psalmist’s 
comparison implies. Moreover, instead of speaking of his 
hope or trust, he now speaks of his calling upon God, saying, 
I have called on thee ; and he does this with good reason, for 
he who relies on the providence of God must flee to him with 
prayers and strong cries. To be silent in the grave, implies 
that death, when it befalls the ungodly, restrains and prevents 
them “sid doing farther injury. This silence is opposed 
both to their deceitful and treacherous devices, and to their 
outrageous insolence. In the very next verse, therefore, he 
adds, Let lying lips be put to silence, which, in my opinion, 
includes both their craftiness, and the false pretences and 
calumnies by which they endeavour to accomplish their 
designs, and also the vain boasting in which they indulge 
themselves. For he tells us that they speak with harshness 
and severity against the righteous, in pride and scorn ; because 
it was their froward conceit, which almost always begets 
contempt, that made David’s enemies so bold in lying. 
Whoever proudly arrogates to himself more than is his due, 
will almost necessarily treat others with contempt. 


19. O how great is thy goodness which thou hast hidden for them 
that fear thee! which thou hast performed for them that 
trust in thee before the sons of men! 

20. Thou shalt hide them in the secret [or, in the hiding-place] of 
thy countenance from the pride of man; thou shalt hide 
them as in a tent from the strife of tongues. 

21. Blessed be Jehovah! for he hath made wonderful his good- 
ness towards me, as in a fortified city. 


19. O how great is thy goodness which thou hast hidden for 
them that fear thee / {In this verse the Psalmist exclaims that 
God is incomprehensibly good and beneficent towards his 
servants. Goodness here means those divine blessings which 
are the effects of it. The interrogatory form of the sentence 


1 « O’est, reservee.”"—Fr. marg. “That is, laid up.” 
VOL. I. 2K 


514 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXI. 


has a peculiar emphasis; for David not only asserts thatGodis 
good, but he is ravished with admiration of the goodness which 
he had experienced. It was this experience, undoubtedly, 
which caused him break out into the rapturous language of __ 
this verse; for he had been marvellously and unexpectedly _ 
delivered from his calamities. By his example, therefore, he 
enjoins believers to rise above the apprehension of their own 
understanding, in order that they may promise themselves, 
and expect far more from the grace of God than human 
reason is able to conceive. He says that the goodness of 
God is hidden for his servants, because it is a treasure which 
is peculiar to them. It, no doubt, extends itself in various 
ways to the irreligious and unworthy, and is set before them 
indiscriminately ; but it displays itself much more plenteously 
and clearly towards the faithful, because it is they alone who 
enjoy all God’s benefits for their salvation. God “ maketh 
his sun to rise on the evil and on the good,” (Matth. y. 45,) 
and shows himself bountiful even to the irrational creation; but 
he declares himself a Father, in the true and full sense of the 
term, to those only who are his servants. It is not without 
reason, therefore, that the goodness of God is said to be hidden © 
for the faithful, whom alone he accounts worthy of enjoying 
his favour most intimately and tenderly. Some give a more 
subtle interpretation of the phrase, the goodness of God is 
hidden, explaining it as meaning that God, by often exercising 
his children with crosses and afflictions, hides his favour from 
them, although, at the same time, he does not forget them. 
It is more probable, however, that it should be understood of 
a treasure which God has set apart and laid up in store for 
them, unless perhaps we choose to refer it to the experience 
of the saints, because they alone, as I have said, experience 
in their souls the fruit of divine goodness; whereas brutish 
stupidity hinders the wicked from acknowledging God as a 
beneficent Father, even while they are devouring greedily 
his good things. And thus it comes to pass, that while the 
goodness of God fills and overspreads all parts of the world, 
it is notwithstanding generally unknown. But the mind of 
the sacred writer will be more clearly perceived from the 
contrast which exists between the faithful and those who are 





PSALM XXXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 515 


strangers to God’s love. As a provident man will regulate his 
liberality towards all men in such a manner as not to defraud 
his children or family, nor impoverish his own house, by spend- 
ing his substance prodigally on others; so God, in like man- 
ner, in exercising his beneficence to aliens from his family, 
knows well how to reserve for his own children that which be- 
longs to them as it were by hereditary right; that is to say, 
because of their adoption.1 The attempt of Augustine to 
prove from these words that those who unbelievingly dread 


God’s judgment have no experience of his goodness, is most 


inappropriate. To perceive his mistaken view of the passage, 
it is only necessary to look to the following clause, in which 
David says that God makes the world to perceive that he 
exercises inestimable goodness towards those who serve him, 
both in protecting them and in providing for their welfare. 
Whence we learn, that it is not of the everlasting blessedness 
which is reserved for the godly in heaven that the Psalmist 
here speaks, but of the protection and other blessings which 
belong to the preservation of the present life; which he de- 
clares to be so manifest that even the ungodly themselves are 
forced to become eye-witnesses of them. The world, I ad- 
mit, passes over all the works of God with its eyes shut, and 
is especially ignorant of his fatherly care of the saints ; still 
it is certain that there shine forth such daily proofs of it, that 
even the reprobate cannot but see them, except in so far as 
they willingly shut their eyes against the light. David, 
therefore, speaks according to truth, when he declares that 
God gives evidences of his goodness to his people defore the 
sons of men, that it may be epg 4 seen that they do not serve 
him unadvisedly or in vain.’ 


20. Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy countenance. 
In this verse the Psalmist specially commends the grace of 
God, because it preserves and protects the faithful against 
all harm. As Satan assiduously and by innumerable means 


1 « C’est a dire, & cause de leur it oar "—Fr, 

2 “ Before the sons of men, i.e. 0 , 80 that the world must acknow- 
1 ‘there is a reward for the rig ro man.’ Compare Psalm lviii. 11.” 
—French and Skinner. 


516 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXI. 


opposes their welfare, and as the greater part of the world is — 
at deadly war with them, they must be exposed to many 
dangers. Unless God, therefore, protected them by his 
power, and came from time to time to their aid, their condi- 
tion would be most miserable. The Psalmist makes an allu- 
sion to the hiding which he had just mentioned, and although 
the metaphor may, at first sight, appear somewhat harsh, it 
very aptly expresses, that provided the Lord take care of 
them, the faithful are perfectly safe under his protection alone. 
By this eulogium, therefore, he sublimely extols the power 
of divine Providence, because it alone suffices to ward off 
every species of evil, and while it shines upon the godly, it 
blinds the eyes of all the wicked, and weakens their hands. 
In the opinion of some, the Psalmist, when he speaks of the 
secret of God's countenance, refers to the sanctuary, an inter- 
pretation which I do not altogether reject, although it does 
not appear to me sufficiently solid. Again, he says that God 
hides the faithful from the pride of man and the strife of tongues, 
because, if God restrain not the wicked, we know that they 
have the audacity to break forth with outrageous violence 
against the truly godly; but however unbridled their lust 
and insolence may be, God preserves his people from harm, 
by wondrously covering them with the brightness of his 
countenance. Some translate the Hebrew word "D5", 
rikasim, conspiracies,’ others perversities, but without any 
reason ; nor, indeed, does the etymology of the word admit 
of it, for it comes from a root which signifies to lift up, or to 
elevate. To pride is added the strife of tongues, because God’s 
children have cause to fear not only the inhuman deeds of 
their enemies, but also their still more wicked and violent 
calumnies, as David himself more than enough experienced. 
And as our innocence ought to be justly dearer to us than our 
life, let us learn to cultivate uprightness in such a manner as 
that, trusting to God’s protection, we may disregard every 
false calumny. And let us always remember that it is God’s 


1 “ Et que quand elle luit sur les fideles, ses rayons sont pour esblouir 
les yeux de tous les iniques, et affoiblir leur mains.” —Fr. 

* This is the reading adopted by Walford. ‘ sps1» a, ox, colligavit: 
hence ‘ bands,’ ‘ conspiracies.’” 





PSALM XXXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 517 


peculiar prerogative to vindicate his people from all unjust 
reproaches. 


21. Blessed be Jehovah! These general truths the Psalmist 
here proceeds to apply to his own circumstances, and he 
declares that the goodness of God in preserving his life 
was wondrously displayed. As he speaks of aid which 
had been suddenly and unexpectedly afforded him in very 
desperate circumstances, those interpreters judge aright who 
here supply as, the mark of similitude,' in this way, as in a 
fortified city. David lay open to every blow, and had been 
exposed to every sort of injury, and he boasts that in his 
nakedness and destitution the assistance of God had been of 
greater service to him than a city well fortified, or an impreg- 
nable fortress would have been. 


22. And I said in my fear,* I am cast out of thy sight: yet truly 
thou hast heard the voice of my supplications when I cried 
unto thee. 

23. O love Jehovah, all ye his meek ones! Jehovah preserveth 
the faithful, and plentifully® recompenseth him who be- 
haveth himself proudly. 

24. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all 
ye who hope in Jehovah. 


22. And I said in my fear. David here confesses that for 
his distrust he deserved to be deserted by God and left to 
perish. It is true that to confess this before men he felt to 
be a shameful thing; but that he may the more fully illustrate 
the grace of God to him, he hesitates not to publish the 
shame of his fault. He repeats almost the same acknowledg- 
ment in Psalm exvi. 11, “I said in my haste, All men are liars.” 
I am aware that the Hebrew word }5M, chaphaz, is explained 
by some as meaning flight ; as if David, in fleeing from death, 


1 “ The particle of similitude is wanting in Hebrew, as is not uncom- 
mon. The intention of the Psalmist is evidently to describe by a metaphor 
his signal deliverance, as if he had been guarded by invincible fortifica- 
tions.” — Walford. 
hy Ou, perturbation ; ou, hastivete.”—-Fr. marg. ‘* Or, perturbation ; 
or, ey 
% Ou, par excellence.”——“ Or, excellently."—Fr. marg. 


518 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXI. 


because he was unable to make resistance, was stricken with 
this fear. But I refer it rather to his trouble of mind. 
Whether, therefore, we translate it haste or fear, it means 
_ that he had been, as it were, carried headlong to entertain 
the thought that he was neglected by God. And this haste 
is opposed to calm and deliberate consideration ; for although 
David was stricken with fear, he did not faint under the 
trial, and this persuasion did not continue fixed in his mind. 
For we know that the faithful are often disquieted by fears 
and the heat of impatience, or driven headlong as it were by 
their too hasty or precipitate wishes, but afterwards they 
come to themselves. That David’s faith had never been 
overthrown by this temptation appears from the context, for 
he immediately adds, that God had heard the voice of his sup- 
plications ; but if his faith had been extinguished, he could 
not have brought his mind earnestly to engage in prayer, and 
therefore this complaint was only a lapse of the tongue uttered 
in haste. Now if peevish hastiness of thought could drive 
this holy prophet of God, a man who was adorned with so 
many excellencies, to despair, how much reason have we to 
fear, lest our minds should fail and fatally ruin us? This 
confession of David, as we have already observed, serves to 
magnify the grace of God; but at the same time he suffi- 
ciently shows, in the second clause of the verse, that his faith, 
although severely shaken, had not been altogether eradicated, 
because he ceased not meanwhile to pray. The saints often 
wrestle in this manner with their distrust, that partly they 
may not despond, and that partly they may gather courage 
and stimulate themselves to prayer. Nor does the weakness 
of the flesh, even when they are almost overthrown, hinder 
them from showing that they are unwearied and invincible 
champions before God. But although David stoutly resisted 
temptation, he nevertheless acknowledges himself unworthy 
of God’s grace, of which he in some measure deprived himself 
by his doubt. For the Hebrew particle JON, aken, is here 
to be understood adversatively and rendered yet, intimating 
that David had been preserved without any desert of his 
own, inasmuch as God’s immeasurable goodness strove with 
his unbelief. But as it is a sign of affirmation in Hebrew, I 








EE EE ae 


PSALM XXXI. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 519 


have thought proper to translate it, Yet truly. I have no 
doubt that he opposes his language to the various temptations 
with which, it is probable, his mind had been driven hither 
and thither. 


23. O love Jehovah, all ye his meek ones! In my opinion, 
the Psalmist does not here exhort the saints to fear and 
reverence God, as many think, but encourages them to con- 
fide in him ; or, in other words, to devote themselves wholly to 
him, to put all their hope in him, and to rely entirely upon him, 
without seeking to any other. Whence is it that our own 
fond devices delight us, but because we do not delight in 
God so much as we ought, and because our affections do not 
cleave to him? This love of God, therefore, comprehends in 
it all the desires of the heart. By nature, all men greatly 
desire to be in a prosperous or happy state; but while the 
greater number are fascinated by the allurements of the 
world, and prefer its lies and impostures, scarcely one in a 
hundred sets his heart on God. The reason which immedi- 
ately follows confirms this interpretation; for the inspired 
Psalmist exhorts the meek to love God, because he preserves 
the faithful, which is as if he had desired them to rest satisfied 
with his guardianship, and to acknowledge that in it they 
had sufficient succour.! In the meantime, he admonishes 
them to keep a good conscience, and to cultivate uprightness, 
since God promises to preserve only such as are upright and 
faithful. On the other hand, he declares that he plentifully 
recompenses the proud, in order that when we observe them 
succeeding prosperously for a time, an unworthy emulation 
may not entice us to imitate them, and that their haughti- 
ness, and the outrage they commit, while they think they 
are at liberty to do what they please, may not crush and 
break our spirits. The amount of the whole is this, Although 
the ungodly flatter themselves, while they proceed in their 
wickedness with impunity, and believers are harassed with 
many fears and dangers, yet devote yourselves to God, and 
rely upon his grace, for he will always defend the faithful, 


1 « Et recognoistre qu’en icelle ils ont assez de secours.”—Fr. 


520 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXI. 


and reward the proud as they deserve. Concerning the 
meaning of the Hebrew word any, al-yether, which we 
have rendered plentifully,! interpreters are not agreed. Some 
translate it pride, meaning that to those who behave them- 
selves proudly, God will render according to their pride; 
others translate it to overflowing, or beyond measure, because 
“M', yether, signifies in Hebrew residue or remnant; instead 
of which I have translated it plentifully. Some understand 
it as extending to their children and children’s children, who 
shall remain the residue of their seed. Besides, as the same 
word is frequently used for excellence,? I have no doubt that 
the prophet elegantly rebukes the proud, who imagine that 
their fancied excellence is not only a shield to them, but an 
invincible fortress against God. As their groundless authority 
and power blind, or rather bewitch them, so that they 
vaunt themselves intemperately and without measure against 
those who are lowly and feeble, the prophet elegantly says 
that there is a reward in store for them proportioned to the 
haughtiness with which they are puffed up. 


24. Be of good courage. This exhortation is to be under- 
stood in the same way as the preceding ; for the stedfastness 
which the Psalmist here enjoins is founded on the love of God 
of which he had spoken, when renouncing all the enticements 
of the world, we embrace with our whole hearts the defence 
and protection which he promises to us. Nor is his exhor- 
tation to courage and firmness unnecessary ; because, when 
any one begins to rely on God, he must lay his account with 
and arm himself for sustaining many assaults from Satan. 
We are first, then, calmly to commit ourselves to the pro- 
tection and guardianship of God, and to endeavour to have 
the experience of his goodness pervading our whole minds. 
Secondly, thus furnished with steady firmness and unfailing 


1 Literally, ‘‘ with plenty.” 

2 The word 43, gadh, from which mss, gadivah, which we have rendered 
proudly, is derived, signifies elatus est, eminuit ; and ™x3, “is 
sometimes taken in a bad sense for pride or arrogance, as in Ps. x. 2; and 
sometimes in a good sense for splendour, magnificence, strength, excellence. 
In the latter sense it is used of God, Ps. lxvili. 35, His height, or excellence 
and strength, are in the clouds."—Hammond. 





\ 


\ 


PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. ; 521 


strength, we are to stand prepared to sustain every day new 
conflicts. As no man, however, is able of himself to sustain 
these conflicts, David urges us to hope for and ask the 
spirit of fortitude from God, a matter particularly worthy 
of our notice. For hence we are taught, that when the 
Spirit of God puts us in mind of our duty, he examines 
not what each man’s ability is, nor does he measure men’s 
services by their own strength, but stimulates us rather to 
pray and beseech God to correct our defects, as it is he 
alone who can do this. 


PSALM XXXII. 


David having largely and painfully experienced what a miserable thing 
it is to feel God’s hand heavy on account of sin, exclaims that the 
highest and best part of a happy life consists in this, that God for- 
gives a man’s guilt, and receives him graciously into his favour. 
After giving thanks for pardon obtained, he invites others to fellow- 
ship with him in his happiness, showing, by his own example, the 
means by which this may be obtained. 


q A Psalm of David giving instruction. 


The title of this psalm gives some idea of its subject. Some think 
that the Hebrew word b>e», maskil, which we have rendered giving in- 
struction,’ is taken from verse 7th ;? but it is more accurate to consider 
it as a title given to the psalm in accordance with its whole scope and 
subject-matter. David, after enduring long and dreadful torments, 
when God was severely trying him, by showing him the tokens of his 
wrath, having at length obtained favour, applies this evidence of the 
divine goodness for his own benefit, and the benefit of the whole Church, 
that from it he may teach himself and them what constitutes the chief 
point of salvation. All men must necessarily be either in miserable 
torment, or, which is worse, forgetting themselves and God, must continue 


1 Pour lequel nous avons traduit, Donnant instruction.”—Fr. 
2 Where it is said, ‘I will instruct thee and teach thee.” 


522 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII, 


in deadly lethargy, until they are persuaded that God is reconciled towards. 
them. Hence David here teaches us that the happiness of men con- — 
sists only in the free forgiveness of sins, for nothing can be more terrible 
than to have God for our enemy; nor can he be gracious to us in any 
other way than by pardoning our transgressions. 


1, Blessed are they whose iniquity is forgiven, and whose trans- — 
gression is covered, 

2. Blessed is the man to whom Jehovah imputeth no sin, and in 
whose spirit there is no guile. 


1. Blessed are they whose iniquity is forgiven. This excla- 
mation springs from the fervent affection of the Psalmist’s 
heart as well as from serious consideration. Since almost 
the whole world turning away their thoughts from God's 
judgment, bring upon themselves a fatal forgetfulness, and 
intoxicate themselves with deceitful pleasures; David, as if 
he had been stricken with the fear of God’s wrath, that he 
might betake himself to Divine mercy, awakens others also 
to the same exercise, by declaring distinctly and loudly that 
those only are blessed to whom God is reconciled, so as to 
acknowledge those for his children whom he might justly 
treat as his enemies. Some are so blinded with hypocrisy 
and pride, and some with such gross contempt of God, that 
they are not at all anxious in seeking forgiveness, but all 
acknowledge that they need forgiveness; nor is there a man 
in existence whose conscience does not accuse him at God’s 
judgment-seat, and gall him with many stings. This con- 
fession, accordingly, that all need forgiveness, because no 
man is perfect, and that then only is it well with us when 
God pardons our sins, nature herself extorts even from 
wicked men. But in the meantime, hypocrisy shuts the 
eyes of multitudes, while others are so deluded by a perverse 
carnal security, that they are touched either with no feelings 
of Divine wrath, or with only a frigid feeling of it. 

_ From this proceeds a twofold error: first, that such men 
make light of their sins, and reflect not on the hundredth part 
of their danger from God’s indignation ; and, secondly, that 
they invent frivolous expiations to free themselves from guilt 
and to purchase the favour of God. Thus in all ages it has — 





PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 523 


been everywhere a prevailing opinion, that although all men 
are infected with sin, they are at the same time adorned with 
merits which are calculated to procure for them the favour of 
God, and that although they provoke his wrath by their crimes, 
they have expiations and satisfactions in readiness to obtain 
their absolution. This delusion of Satan is equally common 
among Papists, Turks, Jews, and other nations. Every man, 
therefore, who is not carried away by the furious madness of 
Popery, will admit the truth of this statement, that men are 
in a wretched state unless God deal mercifully with them by 
not laying their sins to their charge. But David goes farther, 
declaring that the whole life of man is subjected to God’s 
wrath and curse, except in so far as he vouchsafes of his 
own free grace to receive them into his favour; of which 
* the Spirit who spake by David is an assured interpreter and 
witness to us by the mouth of Paul, (Rom. iv. 6.) Had 
Paul not used this testimony, never would his readers have 
penetrated the real meaning of the prophet ; for we see that 
the Papists, although they chant in their temples, “ Blessed 
are they whose iniquities are forgiven,” &c., yet pass over it as 
if it were some common saying and of little importance. But 
with Paul, this is the full definition of the righteousness of 


. faith; as if the prophet had said, Men are then only blessed 


when they are freely reconciled to God, and counted as 
righteous by him. ‘The blessedness, accordingly, that David 
celebrates utterly destroys the righteousness of works. The 
device of a partial righteousness with which Papists and 
others delude themselves is mere folly; and even among 
those who are destitute of the light of heavenly doctrine, no 
one will be found so mad as to arrogate a perfect righteous- 
ness to himself, as appears from the expiations, washings, 
and other means of appeasing God, which have always been 
in use among all nations. But yet they do not hesitate to 
obtrude their virtues upon God, just as if by them they had 
acquired of themselves a great part of their blessedness. 
David, however, prescribes a very different order, namely, 
that in seeking happiness, all should begin with the principle, 
that God cannot be reconciled to those who are worthy of 
eternal destruction in any other way than by freely pardon- 


524 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII. 


ing them, and bestowing upon them his favour. And justly 
does he declare that if mercy is withheld from them, all men 
must be utterly wretched and accursed ; for if all men are 
naturally prone only to evil, until they are regenerated, their 
whole previous life, it is obvious, must be hateful and loath- 
some in the sight of God. Besides, as even after regenera- 
tion, no work which men perform can please God unless he 
pardons the sin which mingles with it, theymust be excluded 
from the hope of salvation. Certainly nothing will remain 
for them but cause for the greatest terror. That the works 
of the saints are unworthy of reward because they are spot- 
ted with stains, seems a hard saying to the Papists. But in 
this they betray their gross ignorance in estimating, ac- — 
cording to their own conceptions, the judgment of God, in 
whose eyes the very brightness of the stars is but darkness. 
Let this therefore remain an established doctrine, that as we 
are only accounted righteous before God by the free remission 
of sins, this is the gate of eternal salvation ; and, accordingly, 
that they only are blessed who rely upon God’s merey. We 
must bear in mind the contrast which I have already men- 
tioned between believers who, embracing the remission of 
sins, rely upon the grace of God alone, and all others who 
neglect to betake themselves to the sanctuary of Divine 
grace. 

Moreover, when David thrice repeats the same thing, this 
is no vain repetition. It is indeed sufficiently evident of 
itself that the man must be blessed whose iniquity is for- 
given; but experience teaches us how difficult it is to be- 
come persuaded of this in such a manner as to have it 
thoroughly fixed in our hearts. The great majority, as I have 
already shown you, entangled by devices of their own, put 
away from them, as far as they can, the terrors of conscience 
and all fear of Divine wrath. They have, no doubt, a desire 
to be reconciled to God; and yet they shun the sight of him, 
rather than seek his grace sincerely and with all their hearts. 
Those, on the other hand, whom God has truly awakened so 
as to be affected with a lively sense of their misery, are so 
constantly agitated and disquieted that it is difficult to re- 
store peace to their minds. They taste indeed God’s merey, 











PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 525 


and endeavour to lay hold of it, and yet they are frequently 
abashed or made to stagger under the manifold assaults 
which are made upon them. The two reasons for which the 
Psalmist insists so much on the subject of the forgiveness of 
sins are these,—that he may, on the one hand, raise up those 
who are fallen asleep, inspire the careless with thoughtful- 
ness, and quicken the dull; and that he may, on the other 
hand, tranquillise fearful and anxious minds with an assured 
and steady confidence. To the former, the doctrine may be 
applied in this manner: “What mean ye, O ye unhappy men! 
that one or two stings of conscience do not disturb you? 
- Suppose that a certain limited knowledge of your sins is not 
sufficient to strike you with terror, yet how preposterous is 
it to continue securely asleep, while you are overwhelmed 
with an immense load of sins!” And this repetition fur- 
nishes not a little comfort and confirmation to the feeble and 
fearful. As doubts are often coming upon them, one after 
another, it is not sufficient that they are victorious in one 
conflict only. That despair, therefore, may not overwhelm 
them amidst the various perplexing thoughts with which 
they are agitated, the Holy Spirit confirms and ratifies the 
remission of sins with many declarations. 

It is now proper to weigh the particular force of the ex- 
pressions here employed. Certainly the remission which is 
here treated of does not agree with satisfactions. God, in 
lifting off or taking away sins, and likewise in covering and 
not imputing them, freely pardons them. On this account 
the Papists, by thrusting in their satisfactions and works of 
supererogation as they call them, bereave themselves of this 
blessedness. Besides, David applies these words to complete 
forgiveness. The distinction, therefore, which the Papists 
here make between the remission of the punishment and of 
the fault, by which they make only half a pardon, is not at all 
to the purpose. Now, it is necessary to consider to whom this 
happiness belongs, which may be easily gathered from the 
circumstance of the time. When David was taught that he 
was blessed through the mercy of God alone, he was not an 
alien from the church of God; on the contrary, he had pro- 

fited above many in the fear and service of God, and in holi- 


526 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII. 


ness of life, and had exercised himself in all the duties of 
godliness. And even after making these advances in religi 
God so exercised him, that he placed the alpha and omega of 
his salvation in his gratuitous reconciliation to God. Nor is 
it without reason that Zacharias, in his song, represents “ the 
knowledge of salvation” as consisting in knowing “ the remis- 
sion of sins,” (Luke i. 77.) The more eminently that any one 
excels in holiness, the farther he feels himself from perfect 
righteousness, and the more clearly he perceives that he can 
trust in nothing but the mercy of God alone. Hence it ap- 
pears, that those are grossly mistaken who conceive that the 
pardon of sin is necessary only to the beginning of righteous- 
ness. As believers are every day involved in many faults, it 
will profit them nothing that they have once entered the way 
of righteousness, unless the same grace which brought them 
into it accompany them to the last step of their life. Does 
any one object, that they are elsewhere said to be blessed 
“‘who fear the Lord,” “ who walk in his ways,” “ who are 
upright in heart,” &c., the answer is easy, namely, that as the 
perfect fear of the Lord, the perfect observance of his law, 
and perfect uprightness of heart, are nowhere to be found, 
all that the Scripture anywhere says, concerning blessedness, 
is founded upon the free favour of God by which he recon- 
ciles us to himself. 


2. In whose spirit there is no guile. In this clause the Psalmist 
distinguishes believers both from hypocrites and from senseless 
despisers of God, neither of whom care for this happiness, 
nor can they attain to the enjoyment of it. The wicked are, 
indeed, conscious to themselves of their guilt, but still they 
delight in their wickedness ; harden themselves in their im- 
pudence, and laugh at threatenings ; or, at least, they indulge 
themselves in deceitful flatteries, that they may not be con- 
strained to come into the presence of God. Yea, though they 
are rendered unhappy by a sense of their misery, and harassed 
with secret torments, yet with perverse forgetfulness they 
stifle all fear of God. As for hypocrites, if their conscience as 
any time stings them, they soothe their pain with ineffectual 
remedies : so that if God at any time cite them to his tribunal, 








PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 527 


they place before them I know not what phantoms for their 
defence; and they are never without coverings whereby they 
_ may keep the light out of their hearts. Both these classes of 
men are hindered by inward guile from seeking their happiness 
in the fatherly love of God. Nay more, many of them rush 
frowardly into the presence of God, or puff themselves up with 
proud presumption, dreaming that they are happy, although 
God is against them. David, therefore, means that no man 
can taste what the forgiveness of sins is until his heart is first 
cleansed from guile. What he means, then, by this term, 
guile, may be understood from what I have said. Whoever 
examines not himself, as in the presence of God, but, on the 
contrary, shunning his judgment, either shrouds himself in 
darkness, or covers himself with leaves, deals deceitfully both 
with himself and with God. It is no wonder, therefore, that 
he who feels not his disease refuses the remedy. The two 
kinds of this guile which I have mentioned are to be parti- 
cularly attended to. Few may be so hardened as not to be 
touched with the fear of God, and with some desire of his 
grace, and yet they are moved but coldly to seek forgiveness. 
Hence it comes to pass, that they do not yet perceive what 
an unspeakable happiness it is to possess God’s favour. 
Such was David’s case for a time, when a treacherous secu- 
rity stole upon him, darkened his mind, and prevented him 
from zealously applying himself to pursue after this happiness. 
Often do the saints labour under the same disease. If, there- 
fore, we would enjoy the happiness which David here proposes 
to us, we must take the greatest heed lest Satan, filling our 
hearts with guile, deprive us of all sense of our wretchedness, 
in which every one who has recourse to subterfuges must 
necessarily pine away. 


3. When I kept silence, my bones wasted away, and when I cried 
out all the day. 

4, For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me; and my green- 
ness was turned into the drought of summer. 


3. When I kept silence, my bones wasted away. Here David 
confirms, by his own experience, the doctrine which he had 
laid down; namely, that when humbled under the hand of 


528 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII. 


God, he felt that nothing was so miserable as to be deprived 
of his favour: by which he intimates, that this truth cannot 
be rightly understood until God has tried us with a feeling 
of his anger. Nor does he speak of a mere ordinary trial, 
but declares that he was entirely subdued with the extremest — 
rigour. And certainly, the sluggishness of our flesh, in this 
matter, is no less wonderful than its hardihood. If we are 
not drawn by forcible means, we will never hasten to seek 
reconciliation to God so earnestly as we ought. In fine, the 
inspired writer teaches us by his own example, that we never 
perceive how great a happiness it is to enjoy the favour of 
God, until we have thoroughly felt from grievous conflicts 
with inward temptations, how terrible the anger of God is. 
He adds, that whether he was silent, or whether he attempted 
to heighten his grief by his crying and roaring,’ his bones 
waxed old; in other words, his whole strength withered 
away. From this it follows, that whithersoever the sinner 
may turn himself, or however he may be mentally affected, 
his malady is in no degree lightened, nor his welfare in any 
degree promoted, until he is restored to the favour of God. 
It often happens that those are tortured with the sharpest 
grief who gnaw the bit, and inwardly devour their sorrow, 
¥ and keep it enclosed and shut up within, without discoy- 
ering it, although afterwards they are seized as with sudden 
madness, and the force of their grief bursts forth with the 
greater impetus the longer it has been restrained. By the 
term silence, David means neither insensibility nor stupidity, 
but that feeling which lies between patience and obstinacy, 
and which is as much allied to the vice as to the virtue. For 
his bones were not consumed with age, but with the dreadful 
A torments of his mind. His silence, however, was not the 


\ The translation of this verse in our English Bible is, “ When I 
silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long;” on 
which Street observes, ‘‘ I must own I do not understand how a man can 
be said to keep silence who roars all the day long.” Accordingly, instead of 
When I kept silence, he reads, While I am lost in thought; obeamaine that 
“‘ the verb ean, in the Hiphil conjugation, signifies to ponder, to consider, 
to be deep in thought.” But according to the translation and ition of 
Calvin, there is no inconsistency between the first and the second clause of 
the verse. To avoid the bk a contradiction of being at once silent and 
yet roaring all the day long, Dr Boothroyd, instead of roaring, reads pangs. — 





PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 529 


silence of hope or obedience, for it brought no alleviation of 
his misery. 


4. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. In this 
verse he explains more fully whence such heavy grief arose ; 
namely, because he felt the hand of God to be sore against 
him. The greatest of all afflictions is to be so heavily pressed 
with the hand of God, that the sinner feels he has to do with 
a Judge whose indignation and severity involve in them 
many deaths, besides eternal death. David, accordingly, com- 
plains that his moisture was dried up, not merely from simply 
meditating on his sore afflictions, but because he had discoy- 
ered their cause and spring. The whole strength of men fails 
when God appears as a Judge and humbles and lays them 
prostrate by exhibiting the signs of his displeasure. Then is 
fulfilled the saying of Isaiah, (chap. xl. 7,) “The grass wither- 
eth, the flower fadeth, because the Spirit of the Lord bloweth 
upon it.” The Psalmist, moreover, tells us, that it was no com- 
mon chastisement by which he had been taught truly to fear 
the divine wrath ; for the hand of the Lord ceased not to be 
heavy upon him both day and night. From a child, indeed, he 
had been inspired with the fear of God, by the secret influence 
of the Holy Spirit, and had been taught in true religion and 
godliness by sound doctrine and instruction. And yet so insuffi- 
cient was this instruction for his attainment of this wisdom, 
that he had to be taught again like a new beginner in the very 
midst of his course. Yea, although he had now been long 
accustomed to mourn over his sins, he was every day anew 
reduced to this exercise : which teaches us, how long it is ere 
men recover themselves when once they have fallen; and also 
how slow they are to obey until God, from time to time, 
redouble their stripes, and increase them from day to day. 
Should any one ask concerning David, whether he had be- 
come callous under the stripes which he well knew were 
inflicted on him by the hand of God, the context furnishes 
the answer; namely, that he was kept down and fettered by 
perplexing griefs, and distracted with lingering torments, until 
he was well subdued and made meek, which is the first sign 
of seeking a remedy. And this again teaches us, that it is 

VOL. I. 21L 


530 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII. 


- 


not without cause that the chastisements by which God seems — 
to deal cruelly with us are repeated, and his hand made heavy 
against us, until our fierce pride, which we know to be un- 
tameable, unless subdued with the heaviest stripes, is humbled. 


5. I have acknowledged my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have 
I not hid. I said, I will confess against myself to Jehowah 
my wickedness; and thou didst remit the guilt’ of my sin. 
Selah. 

6. Therefore shall every one that is meek pray unto thee in the 
time of finding thee; so that in a flood of many waters,® they 
shall not come nigh unto him. 

7. Thou art my hiding-place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble; 


thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. 
Selah. 


5. I have acknowledged my sin unto thee. The prophet now 
describes the issue of his misery, in order to show to all the 
ready way of obtaining the happiness of which he makes 
mention. When his feeling of divine wrath sorely vexed and 
tormented him, his only relief was unfeignedly to condemn 
himself before God, and humbly to flee to him to crave his for- 
giveness. He does not say, however, that his sins merely came 

+ to his remembrance, for so also did the sins of Cain and Judas, 
although to no profit ; because, when the consciences of the 
wicked are troubled with their sins, they cease not to torment 
themselves, and to fret against God: yea, although he forces 
them unwillingly to his bar, they still eagerly desire to hide 
themselves. But here there is described a very different method 

of acknowledging sin; namely, when the sinner willingly be- 
—\Ktakes himself to God, building his hope of salvation not on 
stubbornness or hypocrisy, but on supplication for pardon. Y 
This voluntary confession is always conjoined with faith ; for 
otherwise the sinner will continually seek lurking-places 
where he may hide himself from God. David’s words clearly 

~— show that he came unfeignedly and cordially into the presence 
of God, that he might conceal nothing. When he tells us 
that he acknowledged his sin, and did not hide it, the latter 


? 


1 “ On, peine.”—Fr. marg. ‘ Or, punishment.” 
* “ De grandes eaux.”—Ir. “ Of great waters.” 











PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 531 


clause is added, according to the Hebrew idiom, for the sake 
of amplification. There is no doubt, therefore, that David, 
when he appeared before God, poured out all his heart. Hy- 
pocrites, we know, that they may extenuate their evil doings, 
either disguise or misrepresent them; in short, they never 
make an honest confession of them, with an ingenuous and 
open mouth. But David denies that he was chargeable with 
this baseness. Without any dissimulation he made known to 
God whatever grieved him; and this he confirms by the 
words, I have said. While the wicked are dragged by force, x 
just as a judge compels offenders to come to trial, he assures 
us that he came deliberately and with full purpose of mind; 
for the term, said, just signifies that he deliberated with him- 
self. It therefore follows, that he promised and assured him- 
self of pardon through the mercy of God, in order that terror 
might not prevent him from making a free and an ingenuous 
confession of his sins. 

The phrase, upon myself, or against myself, intimates that 
David put away from him all the excuses and pretences by 
which men are accustomed to unburden themselves, transfer- 
ring their fault, or tracing it to other people. David, there- 
fore, determined to submit himself entirely to God’s judg- 
ment, and to make known his own guilt, that being self-con- 
demned, he might as a suppliant obtain pardon. 

And thou didst remit the guilt of my sin. This clause is set 
in opposition to the grievous and direful agitations by which 
he says he was harassed before he approached by faith the 
grace of God. But the words also teach, that as often as the 
sinner presents himself at the throne of mercy, with ingenuous 
confession, he will find reconciliation with God awaiting 
him. In other words, the Psalmist means that God was not 
only willing to pardon him, but that his example afforded a 
general lesson that those in distress should not doubt of God’s ¥ 
favour towards them, so. soon as they should betake them- 
selves to him with a sincere and willing mind. Should any 
one infer from this, that repentance and confession are the ~~ 
cause of obtaining grace, the answer is easy ; namely, that 
David is not speaking here of the cause but of the manner 
in which the sinner becomes reconciled to God. Confession, 


% 


532 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII, 


no doubt, intervenes, but we must go beyond this, and con- 


sider that it is faith which, by opening our hearts and tongues, 
really obtains our pardon. It is not admitted that every thing 
which is necessarily connected with pardon is to be reckoned 
amongst its causes. Or, to speak more simply, David obtained 
pardon by his confession, not because he merited it by the 
mere act of confessing, but because, under the guidance of 
faith, he humbly implored-it from his judge. Moreover, as 
the same method of confession ought to be in use among us 
at this day, which was formerly employed by the fathers 
under the law, this sufficiently refutes that tyrannical decree 
of the Pope, by which he turns us away from God, and sends 
us to his priests to obtain pardon. . 


6. Therefore shall every one that is meek pray unto thee. 
Here the Psalmist expressly states that whatever he has 
hitherto set forth in his own person belongs in common to 
all the children of God. And this is to be carefully observed, 
because, from our native unbelief, the greater part of us are 
slow and reluctant to appropriate the grace of God. We may 
also learn from this, that David obtained forgiveness, not by 
the mere act of confession, as some speak, but by faith and 
prayer. Here he directs believers to the same means of ob- 
taining it, bidding them betake themselves to prayer, which 
is the true sacrifice of faith. Farther, we are taught, that in 
David God gave an example of his mercy, which may not only 
extend to us all, but may also show us how reconciliation is 
tobesought. The words, every one, serve for the confirmation 
of every godly person; but the Psalmist at the same time 
shows, that no one can obtain the hope of salvation but by 
prostrating himself as a suppliant before God, because all 
without exception stand in need of his mercy. 

The expression, The time of finding, which immediately 
follows, some think, refers to the ordinary and accustomed 
hours of prayer; but others more accurately, in my opinion, 
compare it! with that place in Isaiah, (chap. lv. 6,) where it 


1 In the Septuagint version it is rendered, ‘‘ In the time of finding 
favour ;” in the Arabic, ‘‘ In a time of hearing ;” and in the Syriac, “ In 
an acceptable time.” 





PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS, 533 


is said, “ Seek ye the Lord while he may be found, call ye 
upon him while he is near.” It is never out of season, indeed, 
to seek God, for every moment we need his grace, and he is 
always willing to meet us. But as slothfulness or dulness 
hinders us from seeking him, David here particularly inti- 
mates the critical seasons when believers are stimulated by a 
sense of their own need to have recourse to God. The Pa- 
pists have abused this place to warrant their doctrine, that we 
ought to have advocates in heaven to pray for us ;} but the 
attempt to found an argument in support of such a doctrine 
from this passage is so grossly absurd that it is unworthy 
of refutation. We may see from it, however, either how 
wickedly they have corrupted the whole Scripture, or with 
what gross ignorance they blunder in the plainest matters. 

In the flood of many waters. This expression agrees with 
that prophecy of Joel, (chap. ii. 32,) “ Whosoever shall call 
on the name of the Lord, shall be delivered.” The meaning 
is, that although the deep whirlpools of death may compass 
us round on every side, we ought not to fear that they shall 
swallow us up; but rather believe that we shall be safe and 
unhurt, if we only betake ourselves to the mercy of God. 
We are thus emphatically taught that the godly shall have 
certain salvation even in death, provided they betake them- 
selves to the sanctuary of God’s grace. Under the term flood 
are denoted all those dangers from which there appears no 
means of escape. 

At last the Psalmist gives himself to thanksgiving, and 
although he uses but few words to celebrate the divine favour, 
there is, notwithstanding, much force in his brevity. In the 
first place, he denies that there is any other haven of safety 
but in God himself. Secondly, he assures himself that God 
will be his faithful keeper hereafter; for I willingly retain 
the future tense of the verb, though some, without any reason, 
translate it into the past. He is not, however, to be under- 
stood as meaning that he conceived himself safe from future 
tribulations, but he sets God’s guardianship over against 
them. Lastly, whatever adversity may befall him, he is per- 


1 “ Qu'ils nous faut avoir des advocats au ciel qui prient pour nous.” 
—Fr. 


534 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII. 


suaded that God will be his deliverer. By the word compass, 
he means manifold and various kinds of deliverance; as if 
he had said, that he should be under obligation to God in 
innumerable ways, and that he should, on every side, have 
most abundant matter for praising him. We may observe 
in the meantime, how he offers his service of gratitude to 
God, according to his usual method, putting songs of deli- 
verance instead of help. 


8. I will instruct thee, and teach thee in the way that thou mayest 
walk: I will counsel thee with mine eye.\ 

9. Be not like the horse or mule, which have no w ing: 
thou shalt bind his jaw with bit and bridle, lest they kick 
against [or become obstreperous against or obstinately 
disobey | thee. 

10. Many sorrows shall be to the wicked: but the man who hopeth 
in Jehovah, mercy shall surround him, 

1l. Be glad in Jehovah, and rejoice, ye righteous: sing all ye 
that are upright in heart. 


%. I will instruct thee, and teach thee. That his exhortation 
may have the greater force, the divine speaker directs his dis- 
course to every man individually; for the doctrine which is 
spoken penetrates the mind more readily, when every man 
applies it particularly to himself. When the way of salva- 
tion is here shown to the children of God, the greatest care 
must be taken that no man depart from it in the slightest 
degree. We may also learn from this place, that we are 
reconciled to God upon condition that every man endeavour 


1 “ Ou, te guideray de mon eil.”—Fr, marg, “ Or, I will guide thee 
with mine eye.” 

2 This verse in the Hebrew is very elliptical and obscure. Hence, 
besides the translation of Calvin, which es very well with the scope of 
the passage, various other translations have been given of it. In our 
English Bible, the last clause is rendered, ‘lest they come near unto thee,” 
that is, to attack thee. But this is evidently an incorrect translation. 
This is not the common practice of these prs which are timid, and not 
ferocious ; bits and bridles are not used for the purpose of keeping them 
away from us, but of subduing, guiding, and Ry them subservient to 
our will ; and were this the sense, the figure would be inappropriate, since 
the object of the Psalmist is to induce men to approach God. The clause, 
therefore, is rendered by many critics, ‘* Or they will not come nigh unto 
thee ;” that is, they will flee from thee. The Hebrew for this last phrase 
is, “ There is not a coming to thee.” 








— 


PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 535 


to make his brethren partakers of the same benefit. David, 
the more strongly to mark his care about them, describes 
it by the sight of the eye." By the way it should be observed, 
that those who are solicitous about our welfare are appointed 
by the Lord as guides of our way, from which it appears 
how great is the paternal solicitude which he has about us. 


9. Be not like the horse or mule. David now briefly explains 
the amount of the counsel which he formerly said he would 
give. He exhorts all to learn with quietness, to lay aside 
stubbornness, and to put on the spirit of meekness. There is 
much wisdom, too, in the advice which he gives to the godly 
to correct their hardihood ; for if we were as attentive to God’s 
corrections as we ought, every one would eagerly hasten to 
seek his favour. Whence is so much slowness to be found in 
all, but that we are either stupid or refractory? By likening 
the refractory, therefore, to brute beasts, David puts them to 
shame, and at the same time declares that it will avail them 
nothing to “ kick against the pricks.” Men, says he, know 
how to tame the fierceness of horses by bridles and bits; 
what then do they think God will do when he finds them 
intractable ? 


10. Many sorrows shall be to the wicked. Without a figure 
he here declares what will be the condition of the rebellious 
and stiff-necked.? He mentioned before that God wanted 
not bridles and bits with which to restrain their frowardness ; 


and now he adds, that there would be no end or measure of 


their miseries until they were utterly consumed. Although 


1 Most commentators consider Jehovah as the person speaking in this 
verse. Calvin, however, views David as the speaker. In this opinion he is 
followed by Walford. ‘In Psalm li. 13,” says this critic, “‘ written about 
the same time and on the same occasion, David urges as a reason why God 
should restore to him the joy of his sulvation, that he might be enabled to 
teach transgressors his ways, and that sinners might be converted to him. 
So in the passage before us, he addresses himself to sinners, and says, ‘ I 
will instruct thee, and teach thee the way in which thou shalt go.’ ” 

2 Fry reads, “‘ Many are the wounds of the refractory ;” on which he has 
the following note :—‘* We perceive in this place the exact idea of yes, 
in its allusion to the restive, disobedient, unyielding, ungovernable mule 
or horse. It is o to mes, to ane in, to yield to, or succumb, as 
the gentle beast fully confides and yields himself to the management of 


his guide.” 


536 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII. 


God, therefore, may spare us for a time, yet let this denunci- 
ation fill us with fear, and preserve us from hardening our- 
selves, because we are as yet unpunished ; nor let our prospe- 
rity, which is cursed by God, so deceive us as to close our 
minds against reflecting on those unseen sorrows which he 
threatens against all the wicked. And as the Psalmist has 
told us, on the one hand, that God is armed with innumerable 
plagues against the wicked, so he adds, on the other hand, 
that he is furnished with infinite goodness, with which he can 
succour all who are his. The sum is, that there is no other 
remedy for our afflictions but to humble ourselves under 
God’s hand, and to found our salvation on his mercy alone; 
and that those who rely on God shall be blessed in all respects, 
because, on whatever side Satan may assault them, there will _ 
the Lord oppose him, and shield them with his protecting 
power. 


1l. Be glad in Jehovah. After teaching how ready and 
accessible true happiness is to all the godly, David, with 
much reason, exhorts them to gladness. He commands them 
to rejoice in the Lord, as if he had said, There is nothing to 
prevent them from assuring themselves of God’s favour, seeing 
he so liberally and so kindly offers to be reconciled to them. 
In the meantime, we may observe that this is the incompar- 
able fruit of faith which Paul likewise commends, namely, 
when the consciences of the godly being quiet and cheerful, 
enjoy peace and spiritual joy. Wherever faith is lively, this 
holy rejoicing will follow. But since the world’s own impiety 
prevents it from participating in this joy, David, therefore, 
addresses the righteous alone, whom he denominates the upright 
in heart, to teach us that the external appearance of righte- 
ousness which pleases men is of no avail in the sight of God. 
But how does he call those righteous, whose whole happiness 
consists in the free mercy of God not imputing their sins to 
them? I answer, that none others are received into favour 
but those who are dissatisfied with themselves for their sins, 
and repent with their whole heart; not that this repentance 
merits pardon, but because faith can never be separated from 
the spirit of regeneration. When they have begun to devote 
themselves to God, he accepts the upright disposition of their 








- PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 537 


hearts equally as if it were pure and perfect; for faith not 
only reconciles a man to God, but also sanctifies whatever 
is imperfect in him, so that by the free grace of God, he be- 
comes righteous who could never have obtained so great a 
blessing by any merit of his own. 


PSALM XXXII. 


Dayid, or whoever was the author of this psalm, in order to excite be- 
lievers to praise God, founds his argument upon the general providence 
of God, by which he sustains, protects, and governs the whole world. 
Afterwards he celebrates God's paternal kindness towards his chosen 
people, showing at the same time how necessary it is that the godly 
should be cherished by his special care. 


1. Rejoice in Jehovah, ye righteous; praise is comely for the up- 
right. 

2. Praise Jehovah upon the harp; sing unto him upon the viol, 
and an instrument of ten strings. 

3. Sing a new song to him; sing loudly with joyfulness: 

4. For the word of Jehovah is right; and all his works are in 
faithfulness.” 


1. Rejoice in Jehovah, ye righteous. Here the inspired writer 
addresses believers or the righteous by name, because they 
alone are capable of proclaiming the glory of God. Unbe- 
lievers, who have never tasted his goodness, cannot praise him 
from the heart, and God has no pleasure in his name being 
pronounced by their unholy tongues. But the context shows 
more distinctly why this exhortation is suitable for believers 
only. Many, accordingly, expound the latter clause, Praise is 
comely for the upright, as meaning, that if the ungodly or 
hypocrites attempt this exercise, it will turn to the reproach 
and dishonour of God rather than to his praise; nay, more, 


1 “ Ou, digne d’estre aimee par les,” &c.—Fr. marg. “ Or, is worthy 
of being loved by them.” 

2 “ Fideles, c’est, fermes et permanentes.”—-Fr. marg. ‘ Faithful, that 
is, firm and permanent.” 


538 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII, 


that they only profane his holyname. It is, no doubt, very true, 

as I have already remarked, that God creates for himself a 

church in the world by gracious adoption, for the express pur- 

pose, that his name may be duly praised by witnesses suitable 

for such a work. But the real meaning of the clause, Praise is 

comely for the upright, is, that there is no exercise in which they 

can be better employed. And, assuredly, since God by his daily 

benefits furnishes them with such matter for celebrating his 
glory, and since his boundless goodness, as we have elsewhere 

seen, is laid up as a peculiar treasure for them, it were dis- 

graceful and utterly unreasonable for them to be silent in the 

praises of God. The amount of the matter is, that the prin- 

cipal exercise in which it becomes the righteous to be em- | 
ployed is to publish among men the righteousness, goodness, 
and power of God, the knowledge of which is implanted in 
their minds. Following other interpreters, I have translated 
the clause, Praise is comely, but the word rendered comely 
may also be properly rendered desirable, if we view it as de- 
rived from the Hebrew word *)s, avah, which signifies to 
wish or desire. And certainly, when God allures believers 
so sweetly, it is proper that they employ themselves in cele- 
brating his praises with their whole hearts. It is also to be 
observed, that when the prophet, after having in the first 
clause used the appellation, the righteous, immediately adds — 
the words, the upright, which comprehend the inward integrity 
of the heart, he defines what true righteousness is, or in what 
it consists. 


2. Praise Jehovah upon the harp. It is evident that the 
Psalmist here expresses the vehement and ardent affection 
which the faithful ought to have in praising God, when he 
enjoins musical instruments to be employed for this purpose. 
He would have nothing omitted by believers which tends to 
animate the minds and feelings of men in singing God’s 
praises. The name of God, no doubt, can, properly speaking, 
be celebrated only by the articulate voice; but it is not with- 
out reason that David adds to this those aids by which beliey- 
ers were wont to stimulate themselves the more to this exercise; 
especially considering that he was speaking to God’s ancient 
people. There is a distinction, however, to be observed 








PSALM XXXIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 539 


here, that we may not indiscriminately consider as applicable 
to ourselves, every thing which was formerly enjoined upon 
the Jews. I have no doubt that playing upon cymbals, 
touching the harp and the viol, and all that kind of music, 
which is so frequently mentioned in the Psalms, was a part 
of the education; that is to say, the puerile instruction of the 
law: I speak of the stated service of the temple. For even 
now, if believers choose to cheer themselves with musical 
instruments, they should, I think, make it their object not to 
dissever their cheerfulness from the praises of God. But 
when they frequent their sacred assemblies, musical instru- 
ments in celebrating the praises of God would be no more 
suitable than the burning of incense, the lighting up of lamps, 
and the restoration of the other shadows of the law. The 
Papists, therefore, have foolishly borrowed this, as well as 
many other things, from the Jews. Men who are fond of 
outward pomp may delight in that noise; but the simplicity 
which God recommends to us by the apostle is far more 
pleasing to him. Paul allows us to bless God in the public 
assembly of the saints only in a known tongue, (1 Cor. xiv. 
16.) The voice of man, although not understood by the gene- 
rality, assuredly excels all inanimate instruments of music; 
and yet wesee what St Paul determines concerning speaking 
in an unknown tongue.’ What shall we then say of chant- 
ing, which fills the ears with nothing but an empty sound ? 
Does any one object, that music is very useful for awakening 
the minds of men and moving their hearts? I own it; but 
we should always take care that no corruption creep in, which 
might both defile the pure worship of God and involve men 
in superstition. Moreover, since the Holy Spirit expressly 
warns us of this danger by the mouth of Paul, to proceed 
beyond what we are there warranted by him is not only, I 
must say, unadvised zeal, but wicked and perverse obstinacy. 


3. Sing unto him a new song. As the Psalmist afterwards 
treats of the mighty works of God, and particularly concern- 
ing the preservation of the Church, it is not wonderful that 
he exhorts the righteous to sing a new, that is, a rare and 


~ 1 Et neant moins nous voyons ce que Sainct Paul en determine.” —Fr. 








540 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII, 


choice song. The more closely and diligently that believers” 
consider the works of God, the more will they exert ¥, 
selves in his praises. It is no common song, therefore, which — 
he exhorts them to sing, but a song corresponding to the 
magnificence of the subject. This is also the meaning of the — 
second clause, in which he urges them ¢o sing loudly. In this” 
sense, I understand the Hebrew word 5'to'7, heytib, although — 
others refer it rather to the proper setting of the notes. a 

4, For the word of Jehovah is right. As I have just re- 
marked, the Psalmist first sets forth God’s general provi- 
dence by which he governs the whole world; and he tells us — 
that he so exerts his power in the whole course of his opera- — 
tions, that the most perfect equity and faithfulness shine — 
forth everywhere. Some will have the terms word and work — 
to be synonymous; but I think there is a distinction, and 
that word means the same thing as counsel or ordinance, — 
while work signifies the effect or execution of his counsel. I 
grant that here the same subject is repeated in different words, 
as is the case in other places; but a slight variation will 
be found in such repetitions, that the same thing may be 
expressed in various ways. The amount of what is stated is, 
that whatever God appoints and commands is right; and 
whatever he brings to pass in actual operation is faithful 
and true. Meanwhile, it ought to be observed, that the 
term word is not to be understood of doctrine, but of the 
method by which God governs the world. 


5. He loveth righteousness and judgment : the earth is full of the 
goodness of Jehovah. 

6. By the word of Jehovah were the heavens established ; and all 
the host of them by the spirit’ of his mouth. j 

7. He gathered together the waters of the sea as into a heap; he — 
hath laid up the deeps in treasures. 

8. Let all the earth fear Jehovah; let the inhabitants of the 
world stand in awe of him: 


9. For he spake, and it was; he commanded, and it stood. 


5. He loveth righteousness and judgment. This is a confir- — 
1 « C'est, le soufle, le vent.”—Note, Fr. marg. “That is, the breath.” 


PSALM XXXIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 541 


mation of the preceding verse, and intimates to us that God 
of his own nature loves righteousness and equity. It there- 
fore follows, that froward affections cannot hurry him, after 
the manner of men, to evil devices. At first sight, indeed, 
this appears but a common commendation of God, and of small 
importance, because all confess that he observes the most per- 
fect rule of righteousness in all his works. Why then, may 
some one say, has a new song just been spoken of, as if it 
had been about some unusual matter? We answer, in the 
first place, because it is too obvious how wickedly a great 
part of the world shut their eyes to God’s righteousness, 
while they either carelessly overlook innumerable proofs of 
his providence, or imagine that they happen by chance. 
But there is often a worse fault than this; namely, that if 
our wishes are not gratified, we instantly murmur against 
God’s righteousness ; and although the maxim, “ God doeth 
all things righteously,” is in every man’s mouth, yet scarcely 
one in a hundred firmly believes it in his heart, other- 
wise, as soon as this truth is pronounced, “Thus it pleaseth 
God,” every man would obediently submit himself to God’s 
will. Now, as men in adversity are with the utmost diffi- . 
culty brought to this point—to acknowledge that God is just, 
. and as, in prosperity, they soon fall from the acknowledg- 
ment of it, it is not to be wondered at that the prophet, in 
order to persuade men that God is an upright governor, 
affirms that he loveth righteousness. Whoever, therefore, 
has thoroughly embraced this doctrine, let him know that 
he has profited much. 

Others explain this to mean, that God loveth righteousness 
in men. This, indeed, is true; but it is far from the sense of 
the text, because the design of the Holy Spirit here is to main- 
tain the glory of God in opposition to the poison of ungodli- 
ness, which is deeply seated in many hearts. In the second 
clause of the verse, the Psalmist commends another part of 
God’s excellence, namely, that the earth is full of his goodness. 
The righteousness of God ought justly to incite us to praise 
him, but his goodness is a more powerful motive ; because, the 
more experience which any man has of his beneficence and 
mercy, the more strongly is he influenced to worship him. 


542 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIIL — 


Farther, the discourse is still concerning all the benefits of © 
God which he scatters over the whole human race. These, — 
the inspired writer declares, meet us wherever we turn our 
eyes. 


6. By the word of Jehovah. That he may stir us up to 
think more closely of God’s works, he brings before us the © 
creation of the world itself; for until God be acknowledged 
as the Creator and Framer of the world, who will believe 
that he attends to the affairs of men, and that the state of 
the world is controlled by his wisdom and power? But the 
creation of the world leads us by direct consequence to the 
providence of God. Not that all men reason so justly, or — 
are endued with so sound a judgment, as to conclude that 
the world is at this day maintained by the same divine 
power which was once put forth in creating it: on the con- 
trary, the great majority imagine that he is an idle spectator 
in heaven of whatever is transacted on earth. But no man 
truly believes that the world was created by God unless he 
is also firmly persuaded that it is maintained and preserved 
by him. Wisely and properly, therefore, does the prophet 
carry us back to the very origin of the world, in order to fix 
in our minds the certainty of God’s providence in the con- 
tinual order of nature. By the figure synecdoche, he uses 
the term heavens for the whole fabric of the world, because, 
as I have elsewhere remarked, the sight of the heavens more 
than all the other parts of creation transports us with admira- 
tion. He therefore immediately adds, And all the host of them, 
by which phraseology, according to the usual method of Serip- 
ture, he means the stars and planets ; for if the heavens were — 
destitute of this ornament, they would in a manner be empty. 
In saying that the heavens were created by the word of God, 
he greatly magnifies his power, because by his nod alone,' ~ 
without any other aid or means, and without much time or 
labour,? he created so noble and magnificent a work. But 


1 “Par son simple vouloir et commandement.”—Fr. ‘“ Simply by his 
will and commandment.” : 
2 ‘Sans aussi y employer beaucoup de temps ou travail.” —Fr. 





PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 543 


although the Psalmist sets the word of God and the breath of 
his mouth in opposition both to all external means, and to 
every idea of painful labour on God’s part, yet we may truly 
and certainly infer from this passage, that the world was 
framed by God’s Eternal Word, his only begotten Son. 
Ancient interpreters have, with considerable ingenuity, em- 
ployed this passage as a proof of the eternal Deity of the 
Holy Spirit against the Sabellians. But it appears from 
other places, particularly from Isaiah xi. 4, that by the breath 
of the mouth is meant nothing else but speech. For it is 
there said concerning Christ, “‘ He shall smite the earth with 
the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he 
slay the wicked.” As powerful and effective speech is there 
allegorically denominated the rod of his mouth ; so in like man- 
ner, for another purpose it is denominated in the immediately 
succeeding clause the breath of his mouth, to mark the differ- 
ence that exists between God’s speech and the empty sounds 
which proceed from the mouths of men. In proving the 
Divinity of the Holy Spirit, therefore, I durst not press 
this text against Sabellius. Let us account it sufficient 
that God has formed the heavens by his Word in such a 
manner as to prove the eternal Deity of Christ. Should any 
object that these divine persons would not appear distinct 
if the terms Word and Breath are synonymous; I answer, that 
the term dreath is not employed here simply as in other places, 
in which there is evidently a distinction made between the 
Word and the Spirit ; but the breath of his mouth is used figu- 
ratively for the very utterance of speech; as if it had been 
said, As soon as God uttered the breath of his mouth, or 
proclaimed in word what he wished to be done, the heavens 
were instantly brought into existence, and were furnished, 
too, with an inconceivable number and variety of stars. It 
is indeed true that this similitude is borrowed from men; 
but the Scriptures often teach in other places, that the 
world was created by that Eternal Word, who, being the 
only begotten Son of God, appeared afterwards in flesh. 


7. He gathered together the waters of the sea as into a 


544 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII, — 


heap. Here the Psalmist does not speak of all that might 
have been said of every part of the world, but under one — 
department he comprehends all the rest. He celebrates, — 
however, a signal and remarkable miracle which we see in — 
looking on the surface of the earth ; namely, that God gathers 
together the element of water, fluid and unstable as it is, into 
a solid heap, and holds it so at his pleasure. Natural philo- 
sophers confess, and experience openly proclaims, that the 
waters occupy a higher place than the earth. How is it 
then that, as they are fluid and naturally disposed to flow, 
they do not spread abroad and cover the earth, and how is it 
that the earth, which is lower in position, remains dry? In 
this we certainly perceive that God, who is ever attentive 
to the welfare of the human race, has inclosed the waters 
within certain invisible barriers, and keeps them shut up to 
this day ; and the prophet elegantly declares that they stand 
still at God’s commandment, as if they were a heap of firm 
and solid matter. Nor is it without design that the Holy 
Spirit, in various passages, adduces this proof of divine 
power, as in Jer. v. 22, and Job xxxviii. 8. 

In the second part of the verse, he seems to repeat the 
same idea, but with amplification. God not only confines the 
immense mass of waters in the seas, but also hides them, bya 
mysterious and incomprehensible power, in the very bowels 
of the earth. Whoever will compare the elements among 
themselves, will reckon it contrary to nature that the bottom- 
less depths, or the immeasurable gulfs of waters, whose 
native tendency is rather to overwhelm the earth, should lie 
hid under it. That so many hollow channels and gulfs, 
accordingly, should not swallow up the earth every moment, 
affords another magnificent display of divine power; for 
although now and then some cities and fields are engulfed, 
yet the body of the earth is preserved in its place. 


1 In Genesis i. 9 we read, “God said, Let the waters under the 
heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear : 
and it was so.” The Psalmist here probably has a reference to that pass- 

e, as in the 9th verse there is evidently an imitation of the style in 
which God is described in the first chapter of Genesis as performing the 
work of creation. 








- PSALM XXXIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 545 


8. Let all the earth fear Jehovah. The Psalmist concludes 
that there is just reason why the whole world should rever- 
ently submit itself to the government of God, who gave it 
being, and who also preserves it. To fear Jehovah, and to 
stand in awe of him, just means to do honour to, and to rever- 
ence his mighty power. It is a. mark of great insensibility 
not to bow at God’s presence, from whom we have our being, 
and upon whom our condition depends. The prophet alludes 
to both these things, affirming that the world appeared as 
soon as God spake, and that it is upheld in being by his 
commandment; for it would not have been enough for the 
world to have been created in a moment, if it had not been 
supported in existence by the power of God. He did not em- 
ploy a great array of means in creating the world, but to prove 
the inconceivable power of his word, he ordered that so soon 
as he should as it were pronounce the word, the thing should 
be done. The word command, therefore, confirms what I 
formerly said, that his speech was nothing else than a nod, 
or wish, and that to speak implies the same thing as to com- 
mand. It is proper, however, to understand that in this nod, 
or command, the eternal wisdom of God displayed itself. 


10. Jehovah scattereth the counsel of the nations, and bringeth to 
nought the imaginations of the people. 

1l. The counsel of Jehovah shall stand for ever, and the thoughts 
of his heart from age to age.® 

12. Blessed are the people whose God is Jehovah, the people 
whom he hath chosen for his inheritance. 


10. Jehovah scattereth the counsel of the nations. After 
briefly touching upon the creation of the world, the Psalmist 
returns to his former subject, namely, to show that the events 


1 “Tl a commandé que si tost qu'il auroit comme prononcé le mot, la 
chose aussi se trouvast faire.”—/r. 

2 The Septuagint here adds a sentence which is not in the Hebrew, 
namely, “ Kei @Sersi Bovads dexdvtwv,”—“ And frustrates the counsels of 
princes.” The Vulgate, Arabic, and Zthiopic, copying from the Septua- 
gint, have the same addition. But it is not in the Chaldee and Syriac 
versions, which agree with our Hebrew Bibles; and from this we are led 
to conclude that the translators of the Greek version have added this by 
way of paraphrase ; a liberty which we find them using in other places. 

Heb. To generation and generation. 


VOL. I. 2M 


546 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIII. 


which daily come to pass are undoubted proofs of the provi- 
dence of God. And lest any man should be surprised, that 
he should exhibit God as an adversary to men, scattering 
their counsels rather than establishing and bringing them toa 
happy issue, he selects an instance which had the greatest 
power to comfort the saints. We know how many things 
men continually venture upon and contrive against all law 
and justice, and how they endeavour by their devices to turn 
the world upside down, that they may tyrannically acquire 
power to trample upon the good and simple. What creatures 
then would be more miserable than we, if men, possessed of 
such a variety of wicked affections, were permitted to act 
with unlicensed wantonness towards us? But when God 
declares from heaven to us, that it is his work to dash in 
pieces their devices, and to bring their determinations to 
nought, there is no reason why we should not keep ourselves 
quiet, even when they bestir themselves most tumultuously. 
God is, therefore, said to overthrow the counsels of men, not 
because he professedly delights in frustrating them, but to 
check their wantonness ; for they would immediately throw 
all things into confusion were they to succeed according to 
their wishes: yea, as in outraging equity, and vexing the 
upright and innocent, they fail not to fight against God him- 
self, it is very necessary to consider that God’s power and 
protection is set in opposition to their fury. And as the great 
majority of men, despising all modesty, rush headlong into 
indiscriminate licentiousness, the prophet speaks not only of 
individual men, but of whole nations; in other words, he affirms, 
that however men may conspire among themselves, and deter- 
mine to attempt this or that with great hosts, yet shall their 
purposes be brought to nought, because it is as easy for God 
to scatter multitudes as to restrain a few. But although it is 
God’s design in this place to fortify us with good hope against 
the boldness of the wicked, he warns us, at the same time, to 
undertake nothing without his command and guidance. 


11. The counsel of Jehovah. The prophet extols the in- 
finite power of God in such a manner as that he may build 
up our faith in its greatness; for he does not here commend 





PSALM XXXIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 547 


a counsel of God which is hidden in heaven, and which he 
would have us to honour and revere at a distance. But as 
the Lord everywhere in Scripture testifies that he loveth 
righteousness and truth; that he cares for the righteous and 
good ; and that he is ever inclined to succour his servants when 
they are wrongfully oppressed ;—the prophet means, that all 
this shall remain sure and stedfast. Thus he declares for what 
end God bringeth to nought the counsels of the nations, 
namely, because without discrimination they run headlong 
into the violation of all order. 

In the first place, then, let us learn to look at God’s counsel 
in the glass of his word; and when we have satisfied our- 
selves that he has promised nothing but what he has deter- 
mined to perform, let us immediately call to mind the sted- 
fastness of which the prophet here speaks. And as many, or 
rather whole, nations sometimes endeavour to impede its 
course by innumerable hinderances, let us also remember the 
preceding declaration, that when men have imagined many 
devices, it is in God’s power, and often his pleasure, to bring 
them to nought. The Holy Spirit unquestionably intended 
to have our faith exercised in this practical knowledge ; other- 
wise what he here says of the counsel of God would be but 
cold and fruitless. But when we shall have once persuaded 
ourselves of this, that God will defend his servants who call 
upon his name, and rid them of all dangers; whatever mis- 
chief the wicked may practise against them, their endeavours 
and attempts shall in nowise terrify us, because, so soon as 
God sets himself in opposition to their machinations, no craft 
on their part will be able to defeat his counsel. 


12. Blessed are the people whose God is Jehovah. This verse 
excellently agrees with the preceding, because it would profit 
us little to observe what is said of the stability of God’s 
counsel if that counsel referred not to us. The prophet, 
therefore, in proclaiming that they are blessed whom God 
receives into his protection, reminds us that the counsel which 
he had just mentioned is not a secret which remains always 
hidden in God, but is displayed in the existence and protec- 
tion of the Church, and may there be beheld. Thus we see, 


548 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII, 


that it is not those who coldly speculate about the power of — 
God, but those alone who apply it to their own present 
benefit, who rightly acknowledge God as the Governor of 
the world. Moreover, when the Psalmist places all our bless- 
edness in this, that Jehovah is our God, in touching upon the 
fountain of divine love towards us, he comprehends, in one 
word, whatever is wont to be desired to make life happy. 
For when God condescends to undertake the care of our 
salvation, to cherish us under his wings, to provide for our 
necessities, to aid us in all our dangers, all this depends on our 
adoption by him. But lest it should be thought that men 
obtain so great a good by their own efforts and industry, David 
teaches us expressly that it proceeds from the fountain of 
God’s gracious electing love that we are accounted the people 
of God. It is indeed true, that, in the person of Adam, men 
were created at first for the very purpose that they should be 
the sons of God; but the estrangement which followed upon 
sin deprived us of that great blessing. Until God, therefore, 
freely adopt us, we are all by nature wretched, and we have 
no other entrance to or means of attaining happiness but 
this, that God, of his own good pleasure, should choose us 
who are altogether unworthy. It appears, accordingly, how | 
foolishly they corrupt this passage, who transfer to men what 
the prophet here ascribes to God, as if men would choose 
God for their inheritance. I own, indeed, that it is by faith 
that we distinguish the true God from idols; but this prin- 
ciple is always to be held fast, that we have no interest in 
him at all unless he prevent us by his grace. 


13. Jehovah looked down from heaven ; he beheld the children of 
Adam. 

14, From the dwelling-place of his throne he looked on all the 
inhabitants of the earth, 

15. He who fashioned their hearts altogether, who understandeth 
all their works. 

16. A king is not saved for the multitude of his host, nor a giant 
delivered for the greatness of his strength. 


1 Oest, sans en excepter un.”—Note, Fr. marg, “ That is, without a 
single exception.” 





PSALM XXXIII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 549 


17. A horse is a deceitful thing for safety,' and will not deliver 
by the greatness of his strength. 


13. Jehovah looked down from heaven. The Psalmist still 
proceeds with the same doctrine, namely, that human affairs 
are not tossed hither and thither fortuitously, but that God 
secretly guides and directs all that we see taking place. Now 
he here commends God’s inspection of all things, that we on 
_ our part may learn to behold, and to contemplate with the 
eye of faith, his invisible providence. There are, no doubt, 
evident proofs of it continually before our eyes; but the great 
majority of men, notwithstanding, see nothing of them, and, 
in their blindness, imagine that all things are under the con- 
duct of a blind fortune. Nay, the more plenteously and 
abundantly that he sheds his goodness upon us, the less do 
we raise our thoughts to him, but preposterously settle them 
down immoveably on the external circumstances which sur- 
round us. The prophet here rebukes this base conduct, be- 
cause no greater affront can be offered to God than to shut 
him up in heaven in a state of idleness. This is the same as 
if he were to lie buried in a grave. What kind of life would 
God’s life be, if he neither saw nor took care of any thing? 
Under the term throne, too, the sacred writer shows, from what 
is implied in it, what an absurd infatuation it is to divest God of 
thought and understanding. He gives us to understand by this 
word, that heaven is not a palace in which God remains idle 
and indulges in pleasures, as the Epicureans dream, but a royal 
court, from which he exercises his government over all parts 
of the world. If he has erected his throne, therefore, in the 
sanctuary of heaven, in order to govern the universe, it fol- 
lows that he in no wise neglects the affairs of earth, but 
governs them with the highest reason and wisdom. 


15. He who fashioned their hearts altogether. It appears 
that this is added for the express purpose of assuredly per- 
suading believers, that, however the wicked might craftily, 
deceitfully, and by secret stratagems, attempt to withdraw 


1 « Heb. est mensonge & salut.”—Fr. marg. “ Heb. is a lie for safety.” 


550 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIII. 


themselves from God’s sight, and hide themselves in cayerns, 
yet his eyes would penetrate into their dark hiding-places. 
And the Psalmist argues from the very creation that God can- — 
not but bring men’s devices and doings into reckoning and 
judgment ; because, though each man has intricate recesses 
concealed in his bosom, so that there is a wonderful diversity 
of different minds in this respect, and this great variety creates 
a most confounding obscurity; yet the eyes of God cannot 
be dazzled and darkened, so that he may not be a competent 
judge and take cognizance of his own work. By the adverb 
together, therefore, he does not mean that the hearts of men 
were formed at the same moment of time; but that all of 
them were fashioned even to one, and without a single excep- 
tion ; so that those manifest great folly who attempt to hide, 
or to withdraw the knowledge of their hearts from him who 
framed them. The discourse may also be understood as 
meaning, that men cannot, by the erring devices of their own 
thoughts, diminish the authority of God over them, so that — 
he may not govern by his secret providence the events which 
seem to them to happen by chance. We see, indeed, how, 
in forming their vain hopes, they despoil God of his power, 
and transfer it to the creatures, at one time to this object, 
and at another time to that, conceiving that they have no 
need of his aid, so long as they are furnished with out- 
ward means and helps to protect themselves. 

It therefore follows, A king is not saved for the multitude of 
his host, &c. By this the inspired writer means to teach us, 
that the safety of men’s lives depends not upon their own 
strength, but upon the favour of God. He names particu- 
larly kings and giants rather than others; because, as they 
are not of the common class of men, but of a higher condi- 
tion, they appear to themselves to be beyond the reach of 
all danger from darts, and if any adversity befall them, they 
promise themselves an easy deliverance from it. In short, 
intoxicated with a presumptuous confidence of their own 
strength, they scarcely think themselves mortal. They are 
still more hardened in this pride by the foolish admiration of 
the common people, who stand amazed at the greatness of 
their power. If, therefore, neither a king is saved by his 





PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 551 


troops, nor a giant by his strength, when they are exposed to 
danger, in vain do mankind neglect the providence of God, 
and look around them for human help. From this it follows, 
that the condition, both of the strong and the weak, is miser- 
able, until they learn to rely on the protection of God. 


17. A horse is a deceitful thing for safety. In this verse, 
the Psalmist, by the figure synecdoche under the name of 
horse, is to be understood as meaning any kind of help. The 
sense is, that in general those who conceive that their life 
is well protected by earthly means, are commonly disappoint- 
ed at the very crisis of danger, and are miserably beguiled 
to their utter undoing, so that God therein clearly shows 
them their folly. It is true, that kings are not armed with the 
sword in vain, nor is the use of horses superfluous, nor are 
the treasures and resources which God furnishes to defend 
men’s lives unnecessary, provided a right method of employ- 
ing them be observed. But as the greater part of men the 
more they are surrounded with human defences, withdraw 
themselves the farther from God, and by a false imagination 
persuade themselves that they are in a haven safe from all 
disturbance, God acts most justly in disappointing this mad- 
ness. ‘This is the reason why his gifts often pass away with- 
out effect, because the world, by separating them from the 
giver, is also justly deprived of his blessing. 


18. Behold, the eye of Jehovah is upon them that fear him, upon 
those who hope in his mercy; 

19. To deliver their souls from death, and to give them life in 
the time of famine. 


18. Behold, the eye of Jehovah is upon them that fear him. 
Having shown that what men account their best defences 
often profit them nothing, or rather are utterly worthless, 
when men depend upon them; the Psalmist now shows, on 
the other hand, that believers, although they are neither 
men of great power nor of great wealth, are nevertheless 
sufficiently protected by God’s favour alone, and shall be 
safe for ever. His meaning is not a little illustrated by this 
comparison, that kings and giants derive no aid from their 


552 ; COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXII. 


invincible strength, while God supports the life of the saints 
in famine and dearth, as really as if he were to restore life 
to them when dead. We consequently understand better 
why the prophet lays low all the strength of the world; 
not, surely, that men should lie prostrate, or be so heart- 


broken as to pine away in despair; but that, laying aside 


their pride, they should fix their thoughts on God alone, and 
persuade themselves that their life depends on his protection. 
Moreover, in saying that the eye of God is bent upon them 
that fear him to save them, he expresses more than if he had 
said that his hand and power were sufficient to preserve 
them. A doubt might creep into the minds of the weak, 
whether God would extend this protection to every individual ; 
but when the Psalmist introduces him as keeping watch and 
ward, as it were, over the safety of the faithful, there is no 
reason why any one of them should tremble, or hesitate with 
himself a moment longer, since it is certain that God is pre- 
sent with him to assist him, provided he remain quietly under 
his providence. From this, also, it appears still more clearly 
how truly he had said a little before, that the people are blessed 
whose God is Jehovah, because, without him, all the strength 
and riches which we may possess will be vain, deceitful, and 
perishing; whereas, with a single look he can defend his 
people, supply their wants, feed them in a time of famine, 
and preserve them alive when they are appointed to death. 
The whole human race, no doubt, are maintained by the 
providence of God; but we know that his fatherly care is 
specially vouchsafed to none but his own children, that they 
may feel that their necessities are truly regarded by him. 
Again, when it is affirmed, that God, in times of famine 
and dearth, has remedies in readiness to preserve the lives of 
the godly, we are taught that the faithful only pay due 
honour to his providence when they allow not their hearts to 
despond in the extremest indigence; but, on the contrary, 
raise their hopes even from the grave. God often suffers his 
servants to be hungry for a time that he may afterwards 
satiate them, and he overspreads them with the darkness of 
death that he may afterwards restore them to the light of 
life. Yea, we only begin to place our trust firmly in him 


rar 





PSALM XXXII. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 553 


when death comes to present itself before our eyes; for, until 
we have known by experience the vanity of the aids of the 
world, our affections continue entangled in them, and wedded 
to them. The Psalmist characterises believers by two marks, 
which comprehend the whole perfection of our life. The 
first is, that we reverently serve the Lord; and the second, 
that we depend upon his grace. Hypocrites may loudly 
boast of their faith, but they have never tasted even a little 
of the divine goodness, so as to be induced to look to him for 
what they need. On the contrary, when the faithful give 
themselves with their whole heart to the service and fear of 
God, this affection springs from faith; or rather the princi- 
pal part of right worship, which the faithful render to God, 
consists in this, that they depend upon his mercy. 


20. Our soul waiteth upon Jehovah, he is our help and our shield. 

21. Surely our heart shall rejoice in him, because! we will trust 
in his holy name. 

22. Let thy mercy be upon us, O Jehovah ! according as we have 
trusted in thee. 


20. Our soul waiteth upon Jehovah. What the Psalmist has 
hitherto spoken concerning God’s providence, and particularly 
concerning that faithful guardianship by which he protects 
his people, he has spoken not so much from himself as from 
the mouth of the Holy Spirit. He now, therefore, in the 
name of the whole Church, raises his song to declare that 
there is nothing better than to commit our welfare to God. 
Thus we see that the fruit of the preceding doctrine is set 
forth to all true believers, that they may unhesitatingly cast 
themselves with confidence, and with a cheerful heart, upon 
the paternal care of God. In this matter, the Psalmist de- 
clares nothing concerning himself in particular, but unites the 
whole of the godly with him in the acknowledgment of the 
same faith. There is an emphasis in the word soul which 
should be attended to; for, although this is a common mode 
of speech among the Hebrews, yet it expresses earnest affec- 


1 “ Ou, certes.”"—Fr. marg. ‘* Or, certainly,” 


504 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXUI. _ 


tion; as if believers should say, We sincerely rely upon God 
with our whole heart, accounting him our shield and help. 


21. Swrely our heart shall rejoice in him. As the particle 
‘5, At, which is twice employed in this verse, has various 
meanings in Hebrew, it may be understood in a twofold sense 
here. If we expound it affirmatively in both clauses, the 
sense will be, that believers glory both in their joy and in 
their hope. Nor do I think it improper that these two 
should be referred to distinctly in the same context thus: 
Surely God shall always be our joy; surely his holy name 
shall be like an impregnable fortress for our refuge. Whence 
is it that believers continue perseveringly to call upon God, 
but because, satisfied with his favour, they have always, 
amidst their sorrows and griefs, this comfort, which is suffi- 
cient to maintain their cheerfulness? Justly, therefore, do 
believers affirm, in the first place, that their heart rejoices in 
the Lord; because, freed from wandering after the fascina- 
tions of the world, they neither waver nor hesitate at every 
change of fortune, but place the whole felicity of their life in 
enjoying the free and paternal favour of God. They after- 
wards add, in the second place, that they trust in his holy 
name. If any one, however, choose to understand the par-— 
ticle °5, ki, as meaning because, assigning a cause or reason, 
the sense will be no less properly and elegantly expressed in 
this way: Because dur hope is fixed on God, he will be 
equally ready on his part to minister to us continual matter 
of joy. And experience undoubtedly proves, that when men 
are overwhelmed with sorrow, and pine away with care, 
grief, and anxiety, it is that they may receive the recompense 
of their folly ; seeing that there is nothing to which they are 
led with more difficulty, than to set their hopes on God 
alone, and not to exult in their own deceitful imaginations, 
with which they please themselves. 


22. Let thy mercy be on us, O Jehovah! At length the 
psalm concludes with a prayer, which the sacred writer offers 
in the name of all the godly, that God would make them feel 
from the effect that they have not relied on the divine good- 








PSALM XXXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 805 


ness in vain. In the meantime, the Spirit, by dictating to 
us this rule of prayer by the mouth of the prophet, teaches 
us, that the gate of divine grace is opened for us when salva- 
tion is neither sought nor hoped for from any other quarter. 
This passage gives us another very sweet consolation, namely, 
that if our hope faint not in the midst of our course, we have 
no reason to fear that God will fail to continue his mercy 
towards us, without intermission, to the end of it. 


PSALM XXXIV. 


@ A Psalm of David, when he changed his countenance before Abime- 
lech, who banished him from his presence, and he departed from 
him. 


David gives thanks to God for a signal deliverance, and takes occasion 
from it to celebrate his perpetual grace towards all the saints, and to 
exhort them both to trust in him, and to the study of godliness ; affirm- 
ing, that the only way to pass through life happily, is to walk holily and 
harmlessly in the world, in the service and fear of God. It is obvious 
from the title what particular instance of God’s favour he here celebrates. 
When he was driven to King Achish, as recorded in 1 Sam. xxvii. 2,} 
whom, with the exception of Saul, he accounted the deadliest of all his 
enemies, it was not probable that he would ever be able to make his 
escape from him. The only means, therefore, he had of saving his life 
was to feign himself mad by frothing at the mouth, looking fiercely, 
and disfiguring his countenance. Nor is this to be wondered at; for 
Achish, being disappointed of the confident hope of victory which he 
had, and attributing to David alone both the loss which he had sus- 
tained and the dishonour which he had received, burned with implac- 
able hatred against him. In allowing him to escape, therefore, con- 
trary to his own expectation, and the expectation of all other men, 
David acknowledges that there had been exhibited a memorable instance 
of God’s favour towards him, which may be serviceable for the general 
instruction of the whole Church. Instead of Achish,? Abimelech is here 
employed ; and it is probable that the latter name had been the common 


1 Tt should be 1 Sam. xxi. 11, 12. 
2 Achish may have been his particular name, while Abimelech was the 
common title of the Kings of Gath. The word Abimelech signifies Father 


. King. 


556 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM 
designation of the monarchs of the Philistines, as Pharaoh was the com- 
mon name of the monarchs of Egypt, and Cesar that of the Roman 
Emperors, which was borrowed from the name of Julius Cesar, who had — 
first seized the imperial power among the Romans. We know that many — 
ages before David was born, the kings who reigned in Gerar in the time — 
of Abraham were called Abimelech. It is not, therefore, to be wondered — 
at, that this name should be handed down from age to age among their — 
posterity, and become the common name of all the kings of Palestine. — 
The Hebrew word tx», tadim, which I have translated countenance, signi- 
fies also tasting, understanding,‘ and therefore might be pertinently inter- 
preted in this manner, that he appeared foolish and without taste. The 
verb from which it is derived properly signifies to taste, and therefore is 
often transferred to reason, understanding, and all the senses. Accord- 
ingly, David having feigned himself mad, the term understanding is 
very appropriate. Now, although he escaped by this subtle device, he 
doubts not that he was delivered ,by the hand of God; nor does he 
ascribe the praise of his safety to the pretence of madness, but rather 
acknowledges that the cruelty of his enemy had been softened by the 
secret influence of God, so that he who formerly burned with rage against 
him had been pacified by an artifice. Certainly it was not to be ex- 
pected that Achish would have driven away in contempt from him so brave 
aman, whom he had found a dangerous enemy to his whole kingdom, 
and from whom he had suffered such severe losses. This gives rise to 
the question, Whether David feigned himself mad under the guidance of 
the Holy Spirit? For by his appearing to connect together these two 
things,—the pretence of madness and the happy result of this pretence, 
it might be inferred that the same Spirit by whom this psalm was 
dictated suggested this stratagem? to the mind of David, and directed 
him in deceiving King Achish. I answer, that although God sometimes 
delivers his people, while at the same time they err in choosing the 
means, or even fall into sin in adopting them, yet there is nothing 
inconsistent in this. The deliverance, therefore, was the work of God, 
but the intermediate sin, which is on no account to be excused, ought 
to be ascribed to David. In this way Jacob obtained the blessing by 
the favour and good pleasure of God ; and yet the subtlety of the mother, 
with which the obtaining of it was mixed up, was, we know, sinful on 
her part. It may then sometimes happen that the event shall be brought 
to pass by the Spirit of God, and yet the saints whom he may employ as 
instruments shall swerve from the path of duty. It would therefore be 


1 Ainsworth reads, His behaviour, or his sense, reason; and observes, that 
it is ‘‘ properly the taste, as in verse 9, Job vi. 6, and often elsewhere, 
which is used both for one’s inward sense or reason, and outward 
and demeanour, (as the Gr. here translateth it, face,) because by it a man 
is discerned and judged to be wise or foolish, as meats are discerned by 
the taste.” 

* “ Luy meit aussi au ceeur ceste finesse.”—Fr, 





PSALM XXXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 557 


a superfluous task to endeavour to exculpate David, who is rather to be 
blamed, because, by not committing his life entirely to God, he exposed 
himself and the grace of the Spirit, by whom he was governed, to the 
derision of the ungodly. I would not positively assert it, but there appears 
in this deception some token of infirmity. If it should be said that David 
here magnifies the grace of God, because by changing his countenance 
and his speech he escaped death, I again reply, that David expressly 
mentions this circumstance, in order to render the grace of God still more 
illustrious, in that his fault was not laid to his charge. 


1. Iwill bless Jehovah at all times: his praise shall always be in 
my mouth. 

2. My soul shall make her boast in Jehovah : the humble shall 
hear of it, and be glad. 

3. Magnify Jehovah with me, and let us exalt his name together. 

4, I sought Jehovah, and he answered me, and delivered me from 
all my fears. 


5. They shall look to him, and shall flow to him; and their faces 
shall not be ashamed. 


6. This poor man cried, and Jehovah heard him, and delivered 
him from all his troubles. 


1. I will bless Jehovah at ail times. David here extols the 
greatness of God, promising to keep in remembrance during 
his whole life the goodness which he had bestowed upon him. 
God assists his people daily, that they may continually employ 
themselves in praising him; yet it is certain that the bless- 
ing which is said to be worthy of everlasting remembrance is 
distinguished by this mark from other benefits which are 
ordinary and common. This, therefore, is a rule which 
should be observed by the saints—they should often call into 
remembrance whatever good has been bestowed upon them 
by God; but if at any time he should display his power 
more illustriously in preserving them from some danger, so 
much the more does it become them earnestly to testify 
their gratitude. Now if by one benefit alone God lays us 
under obligation to himself all our life, so that we may never 
lawfully cease from setting forth his praises, how much more 


1 “ That is, in all circumstances; in every posture of my affairs.” — 
Horsley. 


558 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIV. 


when he heaps upon us innumerable benefits 7! In order to 
distinguish the praise which he had before said would be 
continually in his mouth from the empty sound of the tongue, 
in which many hypocrites boast, he adds, in the beginning of 
the second verse, that it would proceed from the heart. 


2. My soul shall make her boast in Jehovah. The term soul 
in this place signifies not the vital spirit, but the seat of the 
affections; as if David had said, I shall always have ground 
of boasting with my whole heart in God alone, so that I shall 
never suffer myself to fall into forgetfulness of so great a deliy- 
erance. In the second clause he specifies this as the fruit of 
his thanksgiving, that the afflicted and miserable shall derive 
from it ground of hope. The Hebrew word [>\3y, anavim, 
which we have rendered humble, signifies not all the afflicted? 
in general, but those who, being humbled and subdued by 
afflictions, instead of breathing the spirit of pride, are cast 
down, and ready to abase themselves to the very dust. 
These, he says, shall be partakers of his joy; but not, as 
some have coldly explained it, simply from a feeling of 
sympathy, but because, being persuaded that in the example 
of David, God had given them a general testimony of his 
grace, their hearts would recover from sorrow, and would be 
lifted up on high. Accordingly, he says that this joy shall 
spring from hope, because, having received a pledge of their 
deliverance, they shall cheerfully have recourse to God. 


3. Magnify Jehovah with me. The Psalmist shows still 
another fruit which would be the result of his giving thanks to 
God, namely, that he shall induce others by his example to 
the same exercise of devotion; nay more, he calls upon all 
the godly to unite with him in this exercise, inviting and 
exhorting them heartily and with one consent to extol the 
Lord. Let us therefore learn, from the many instances in 


1 “ Quand il ne cesse de nous bien-faire?”—Fr. ‘* When he never 
ceases from doing us good ?” 

? The word =», anavim, may also be rendered the afflicted. Our 
author in his exposition combines both the ideas of humble and afflicted. 





PSALM XXXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 559 


_ which God may haye given helps to any of his people, to 
abound in hope; and when each recites the personal benefits 
which he has received, let all be animated unitedly and in 
a public manner to give praise to God. We give thanks 
publicly to God, not only that men may be witnesses of our 
gratitude, but also that they may follow our example. 


4. I sought Jehovah, and he answered me. The Psalmist 
here explains more plainly and more fully what he had said 
concerning joy. In the first place, he tells us that his pray- 
ers had been heard. This he applies to all the godly, that, 
encouraged by a testimony so precious, they might stir them- 
selves up to prayer. What is implied in seeking God is evi- 
dent from the following clause. In some places it is to be 
understood in a different sense, namely, to bend the mind 
in earnest application to the service of God, and to have 
all its thoughts directed to him. Here it simply means to 
have recourse to him for help; for it immediately follows 
that God answered him; and he is properly said to answer 
prayer and supplication. By his fears the Psalmist means, 
taking the effect for the cause, the dangers which sorely dis- 
quieted his mind; yet doubtless he confesses that he had 
. been terrified and agitated by fears. He did not look upon 
his dangers with a calm and untroubled mind, as if he viewed 
them at a distance and from some elevated position, but 
being grievously tormented with innumerable cares, he 
might justly speak of his fears and terrors. Nay more, by 
the use of the plural number, he shows that he had been 
greatly terrified not only in one way, but that he had been 
distracted by a variety of troubles. On the one hand, he 
saw a cruel death awaiting him; while on the other, his 
mind may have been filled with fear, lest Achish should send 
him to Saul for his gratification, as the ungodly are wont to 
make sport to themselves of the children of God. And 
since he had already been detected and betrayed once, he 
might well conclude, even if he should escape, that the hired 
assassins of Saul would lay wait for him on all sides. The 
hatred too which Achish had conceived against him, both 
for the death of Goliath and the destruction of his own 


560 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIV. 


army, might give rise to many fears; especially considering 
that his enemy might instantly wreak his vengeance upon 
him, and that he had good reason to think that his cruelty 
was such as would not be appeased by subjecting him to 
some mild form of death.'’ We ought to mark this particu- 
larly, in order that, if at any time we are terrified because of — 
the dangers which surround us, we may not be prevented by 
our effeminacy from calling upon God. Even David, who is 
known to have surpassed others in heroism and bravery, had 
not such a heart of iron as to repel all fears and alarms, 
but was sometimes greatly disquieted and’smitten with fear. 


5. They shall look to him, and shall flow to him. Uhave — 
already intimated, that this verse and the following should 
be read in connection with the preceding verse. In relating 
his own experience, David has furnished an example to 
others, that they should freely and without fear approach God 
in order to present their prayers before him. Now, he says 
that they shall come, and this too with a happy issue. The 
first two verbs are expressed in the past time in the Hebrew; 
but I have, notwithstanding, no doubt that the sentence 
ought to be explained thus: When they shall have looked 
to him, and flowed to him, their faces shall not be ashamed. 
I have therefore translated them in the future tense. Dayid 
is not relating things which had happened, but is commend- 
ing the fruit of the favour which had been manifested to 
himself. Some interpreters, I know, refer the words to him to 
David,’ because immediately after he speaks of himself in 
the third person. Others with greater propriety explain it of 
God himself. A difference of opinion also exists as to the 
Hebrew verb }9793, naharu, which some, supposing it to be 
derived from the root 9\N, or, render to be enlightened But, 

1 Et qu'il avoit bien occasion de penser que la cruaute d'iceluy ne se 
pourroit pas appaiser d le faire mourir de quelque legere mort.” ’ 

2 Those who take this view explain the words as meaning that the 
humble or afflicted, upon looking to David, saw how graciously Ge 
dealt with him, and were enlightened, revived, and encouraged. They 
also consider, as Calvin himself does, the humble or afflicted as the 
persons who speak in the sixth verse, where, potas? it were with 


the finger to David, they say, ‘‘ This poor man cried, 
2 This is the rendering adopted by Horsley, who understands by the 





PSALM XXXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 561 


- in my opinion, the natural signification of the word appears 
very appropriate to this place; as if he had said, There shall 
now be a mirror set forth, in which men may behold the 
face of God serene and merciful; and therefore the poor 
and afflicted shall henceforth dare to lift up their eyes to 
God, and to resort to him with the utmost freedom, because 
no uncertainty shall any longer retard them or render them 
slothful. If, however, any one should préfer the word en- 
lighten, the meaning will be, They who formerly languished 
in darkness shall lift up their eyes to God, as if a light had 
suddenly appeared unto them, and they who were cast down 
and overwhelmed with shame, shall again clothe their coun- 
tenances with cheerfulness. But as the meaning in either 
case is substantially the same, I am not much disposed to con- 
tend which of the two interpretations ought to be preferred. 


6. This poor man cried, and Jehovah heard him. David 
here introduces all the godly speaking of himself, the more 
emphatically to express how much weight there is in his 
example to encourage them. This poor man, say they, 
cried; therefore God invites all the poor to cry to him. 
They contemplate in David what belongs to the common 
benefit of all the godly; for God is as willing and ready at 
this day to hear all the afflicted who direct their sighs, 
wishes, and cries, to him with the same faith, as he was at 
that time to hear David. 


expression the illumination of the soul by the light of Divine truth. He 
reads the verb in the imperative mood, and his translation of the entire 
verse is as follows : 


‘“* Look towards him, and thou shalt be enlightened ; 
And your faces shall never be ashamed.” 


This reading is sanctioned by the Septuagint. It supposes two altera- 
tions on the text. First, that instead of WO°DsT, hibitu, they looked, we 
should read 1277; habitu, look ye; and this last reading is supported 
by several of Dr Kennicott’s and De Rossi's MSS. The other altera- 
tion is, that instead of DFID), upeneyhem, their faces, we should read 
D235), ae your oe. Pees: in defence of reading your in- 
stead of their, observes, ‘that the change of persons is very frequent in 
this book.” ww yr 
VOL. I. 2N 


562 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIV. 


7. The angel of Jehovah encampeth' round about them that fear 
him, and will deliver them. 

8. Taste and see that Jehovah is good : blessed is the man who 
trusteth in him. 

9. Fear Jehovah, ye his saints, for there is no want to them that 
Sear him. 

10. The young lions are destitute and famished : but they who 

fear Jehovah shall not want any good thing. 


7. The angel of Jehovah encampeth round about them that 
fear him. David here discourses in general of God’s fatherly 
favour towards all the godly; and as the life of man is exposed 
to innumerable dangers, he at the same time teaches us that 
God is able to deliver them. The faithful especially, who are 
as sheep in the midst of wolves, beset as it were with death in 
every form, are constantly harassed with the dread of some 
approaching danger. David therefore affirms, that the ser- 
vants of God are protected and defended by angels. The 
design of the Psalmist is to show, that although the faithful 
are exposed to many dangers, yet they may rest assured 
that God will be the faithful guardian of their life. But in 
order to confirm them the more in this hope, he adds at the 
same time, and not without reason, that those whom God 
would preserve in safety he defends by the power and minis- 
tration of angels. The power of God alone would indeed 
be sufficient of itself to perform this; but in mercy to our 
infirmity he vouchsafes to employ angels as his ministers. 
It serves not a little for the confirmation of our faith to 
know that God has innumerable legions of angels who are 
always ready for his service as often as he is pleased to aid 
us; nay, more, that the angels too, who are called principali- 
ties and powers, are ever intent upon the preservation of our 
life, because they know that this duty is intrusted to them. 
God is indeed designated with propriety the wall of his 
Church; and every kind of fortress and place of defence? to 


1 This description seems to have been pe by Jacob’s vision of 
angels, recorded in Gen. xxxii. 1, 2, “And Jacob went on his » and 
the angels of God met him. And when Jacob saw them he said, This is 
God's host; and he called the name of that place Mahanaim,” (7. @, en=- 
campments. :) 

* “ Toute sorte de forteresse et lieu de defense.” —Fr. 





PSALM XXXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 563 


her; but in accommodation to the measure and extent of our 
present imperfect state, he manifests the presence of his power 
to aid us through the instrumentality of his angels. More- 
over, what the Psalmist here says of one angel in the singu- 
lar number, ought to be applied to all the other angels: for 
they are distinguished by the general appellation of “ minis- 
tering spirits, sent forth to minister to them who shall be the 
heirs of salvation,” (Heb. i. 14 ;) and the Scriptures in other 
places teach us, that whenever it pleases God, and whenever 
he knows it to be for their benefit, many angels are appointed 
to take care of each of his people, (2 Kings vi. 15; Psalm 
xci. 11; Luke xvi. 22.) The amount then of what has been 
said is, that however great the number of our enemies and 
the dangers by which we are surrounded may be, yet the 
angels of God, armed with invincible power, constantly watch 
over us, and array themselves on every side to aid and de- 


liver us from all evil. 


8. Taste and see that Jehovah is good. In this verse the 
Psalmist indirectly reproves men for their dulness in not per- 
ceiving the goodness of God, which ought to be to them more 
than matter of simple knowledge. By the word taste he at 
once shows that they are without taste; and at the same 
time he assigns the reason of this to be, that they devour 
the gifts of God without relishing them, or through a vitiated 
loathing ungratefully conceal them. He, therefore, calls upon 
them to stir up their senses, and to bring a palate endued 
with some capacity of tasting, that God’s goodness may be- 
come known to them, or rather, be made manifest to them. 
The words literally rendered are, Taste and see, for the Lord 
is good; but the particle 5, ki, for, is taken exegetically. 
Dayid’s meaning, therefore, is, that there is nothing on the 
part of God to prevent the godly, to whom he particularly 
speaks in this place, from arriving at the knowledge of his 
goodness by actual experience. From this it follows, that 
they also are infected with the common malady of dulness. 
This doctrine is confirmed by the promise immediately 
added, Blessed is the man who trusteth in him ; for God never 
disappoints the expectations of those who seek his fayour. 


564 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIV. 


Our own unbelief is the only impediment which prevents him 
from satisfying us largely and bountifully with abundance of 
all good things. 


9. Fear Jehovah, ye his saints. Here the people of God are 
exhorted to the pursuit of holiness and righteousness, that 
they may open up a channel for divine blessings. We know 
that men are accustomed to provide for their wants, by re- 
sorting to fraud, plunder, and even to wrongful violence. 
Nor is it possible but that the faithful must feel some stir- 
rings of a desire to imitate the wicked, and envy them in 
some degree in their prosperity, so that they permit them- 
selves sometimes to howl among the wolves. And although 
they voluntarily abstain from all wrongful violence, yet the 
common way of living among those around them carries them 
away like a tempest; and, in the meantime, they think that 
the plea of necessity is sufficient to excuse them. David 
represses, as with a bridle, these temptations, promising that 
all will be well with the people of God, provided they keep 
themselves in the fear of God, which he opposes to all wicked 
and deceitful counsels ; because the greater part of men reckon 
those to be fools who aim at simplicity, since in so doing 
they do not consult their own interests and profit. "While, 
therefore, ungodly men are afraid of poverty, and carnal 
reason urges them to attempt whatever their fancy may sug- 
gest for keeping themselves from it, David here testifies that 
God takes care of the godly, so that he never suffers them to 
be in want. Let no fear or distrust, says he, withdraw you 
from the pursuit of what is right, because God never forsakes 
those who walk righteously before him. The Psalmist, there- 
fore, bids them yield to God the honour of expecting more 
from him alone than the wicked expect from their deceitful 
traffic and unlawful practices. Moreover, as iniquity rages 
with unbridled fury everywhere throughout the world, he 
calls expressly upon the saints to be on their guard, because 
he would be of no service to the promiscuous multitude. It 
is a sentiment contrary to the generally received opinion 
among men, that while the integrity of the good and simple 
is exposed to the will of the wicked, there should yet be 
greater security in integrity than in all the resources of fraud 





PSALM XXXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 565 


and injustice. There is, therefore, no inconsistency in his 
admonishing the saints who, of their own accord, are en- 
deayouring to walk uprightly, not to depart from the fear of 
God; for we know how easily the light of piety may be 
obscured and extinguished, when there appears no hope of 
living happily and prosperously, except in the pursuit of the 
world and its enticing pleasures. 

The Psalmist illustrates this doctrine by a very apposite 
comparison, namely, that God provides every thing necessary 
for his people, and relieves their wants, whilst the lions, which 
surpass in ferocity all the wild beasts of the earth, prowl about 
in a famishing condition for their prey. Some think, that 
under the name of dions, those men who are addicted to vio- 
lence and plunder are metaphorically described ; but this, in 
my opinion, is too refined. David simply asserts, that those 
who guard against all unrighteousness should profit more by 
so doing than by rapine and plunder; because the Lord feeds 
his people, while even the lions and other beasts of prey 
often suffer hunger. What he says, then, is, that sooner shall 
the lions perish with hunger and want, than God will disap- 
point of their necessary food the righteous and sincere, who, 
content with his blessing alone, seek their food only from his 
hand. Whoever, therefore, shall in this way cast his cares 
upon God, and confide implicitly in his paternal goodness and 
bounty, shall live quietly and peaceably among men, and 
suffer no injury. If it is objected, that the good and the 
virtuous are not always exempted from penury, I answer, 
that the hand of God is stretched out to succour them in 
due season, when they are reduced to the greatest straits, 
and know not to what side to turn,' so that the issue always 
shows that we seek not in vain from him whatever is neces- 
sary to the sustenance of life. 


11. Come, children, hearken unto me, I will teach you the fear of 
Jehovah. 

12. Who is the man who desireth life, loving days in which he may 
see good ? 

13. Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking deceit. 

14. Turn away from evil, and do good ; seek peace, and pursue it. 


1 « Et ne scavent plus de quel costé se tourner.”—Fr. 


566 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIV. 


- 


11. Come, children,' hearken unto me. The Psalmist con- — 
tinues, with increased earnestness, to exhort the faithful, that 
they may know that nothing can be more profitable for them 
than to conduct themselves justly and harmlessly towards all 
men. As the greater part of men imagine that the best and 
the shortest way to attain a life of happiness and ease consists 
in striving to surpass other men in violence, fraud, injustice, 
and other means of mischief, it is necessary frequently to re- 
peat this doctrine. Moreover, as it is necessary that the minds 
of men should be brought to a chastened and humble state, by 
calling them his children, he endeavours, by this gentle and 
courteous appellation, to allay all froward affections. None 
will stand unmoved amidst so many assaults, but those who 
have been endued by the Spirit of meekness with the greatest 
modesty. The prophet, therefore, tells them at the outset, 
that the rule of life which he prescribes can be observed and 
obeyed by those only who are meek and submissive. To the 
same purpose is the word come, and the command to hearken ; 
and they imply, that men laying aside all wilfulness of spirit, 
and having subdued the ardour and impetuosity of their 
minds, should become docile and meek. He has put the fear 
of the Lord for the rule of a pious and holy life: as if he had 
said, Whilst virtue and righteousness are in every man’s 
mouth, there are few who lead a holy life, and live as they 
ought ; because they know not what it is to serve God. 


12. Who is the man who desireth life? 'The prophet does 
not inquire if there be any man so disposed, as if all men 
voluntarily brought upon themselves the miseries which be- 
fall them ; for we know that all men without exception desire 
to live in the enjoyment of happiness. But he censures 
severely the blindness and folly which men exhibit in the 
frowardness of their desires, and the vanity of their endea- 
vours to obtain happiness; for while all men are seeking, 
and eagerly intent upon acquiring what is for their profit, 
there will be found scarcely one in a hundred who studies to 
purohase peace, and a quiet and desirable state of life, by just 


) By this affectionate appellation, Hebrew teachers were wont to ad- 
dress their scholars. 





PSALM XXXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 567 


and equitable means. The prophet therefore admonishes his 
disciples, that nearly the whole world are deceived and led 
astray by their own folly, while they promise themselves a 
happy life from any other source than the divine blessing, 
which God bestows only upon the sincere and upright in 
heart. But there is in this exclamation still greater vehe- 
mence, the more effectually to awaken dull and drowsy minds 
to the course of this world; as if he had said, Since all men 
earnestly desire happiness, how comes it to pass, that scarcely 
any one sets himself to obtain it, and that every man, by his 
own fault, rather brings upon himself various troubles ? 


13. Keep thy tongue from evil. The precept which David 
here delivers relates to a virtue which is very rare, namely, 
that we should be truthful and free from deceit in our dis- 
course. Some, indeed, understand it in a much more extended 
sense, supposing that slander is condemned in this first clause. 
But it seems to me more simple, and more to the purpose, to 
understand this as of the same import with what he repeats 
in the second clause, that we should not speak deceitfully with 
our neighbours, so as that our words may prove the means 
of ensnaring them. And since nothing is more difficult than 
to regulate our discourse in such a manner as that our speech 
may be a true representation of our hearts, David calls upon 
us to exercise over it a strict and watchful control, not suf- 
fering it to run riot, lest it should prove the occasion of our 


deceiving others. 


14. Turn away from evil, and do good. Here the Psalmist 
commands the children of God to abstain from all evil, and 
to devote themselves to the work of doing good to their 
neighbours. This verse is generally quoted as if David here 
treated of the two parts of repentance. The first step in the 
work of repentance is, that the sinner forsake the vices to 
which he is addicted, and renounce his former manner of life ; 
and the second, that he frame his behaviour according to 
righteousness. But in this place we are more especially taught 
how we ought to deal with our neighbours. As it often 


568 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIV. 


- 


happens, that the man who is not only liberal, but also 
prodigal towards some, or, at least, helps many by acts of 
kindness, wrongs others by defrauding and injuring them, 
David, with much propriety, begins by saying, that those 
who desire to have their life approved before God, ought to 
abstain from doing evil. On the other hand, since many think, 
that provided they have neither defrauded, nor wronged, 
nor injured any man, they have discharged the duty which 
God requires from them, he has added, with equal propriety, 
the other precept concerning doing good to our neighbours. 
It is not the will of God that his servants should be idle, but 
rather that they should aid one another, desiring each other's 
welfare and prosperity, and promoting it as far as in them 
lies. David next inculcates the duty of maintaining peace : 
Seek peace, and pursue it. Now we know that this is main- 
tained by gentleness and forbearance. But as we have often 
to do with men of a fretful, or factious, or stubborn spirit, or 
with such as are always ready to stir up strife upon.the 
slightest occasion; and as also many wicked persons irritate 
us; and as others by their own wickedness alienate, as much as 
in them lies, the minds of good men from them, and others 
industriously strive to find grounds of contention; he teaches 
us not merely that we ought to seek peace, but if at any 
time it shall seem to flee from us, he bids us use our every 
effort without ceasing in pursuing it. This, however, must be 
understood with some limitation. It will often happen, that 
when good and humble men have done every thing in their 
power to secure peace, so far from softening the hearts of the 
wicked, or inclining them to uprightness, they rather excite 
their malice. Their impiety, also, often constrains us to sepa- 
rate from them, and to avoid them; nay, when they defy 
God, by proclaiming, as it were, open war against him, it 
would be disloyalty and treason on our part not to oppose 
and resist them. But here David means only that in our 
own personal affairs we should be meek and condescending, 
and endeavour, as far as in us lies, to maintain peace, though 
its maintenance should prove to us a source of much trouble 
and inconvenience. 





- PSALM XXXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 569 


15. The eyes of Jehovah are upon the righteous, and his ears are 
open to their cry. 

16. The face of Jehovah’ is upon them that do evil, to cut off their 
remembrance from the earth. 

17. They cried, and Jehovah heard them, and delivered them from 
all their troubles. 


15. The eyes of Jehovah are upon the righteous. The best 
support of our patience is a firm persuasion that God regards 
us, and that according as every man perseveres in a course of 
uprightness and equity, so shall he be preserved in peace and 
safety under his protection. In order, therefore, that the 
faithful may not think that they are exposed to the caprice 
of the world, while they are endeavouring to keep themselves 
innocent, and that they may not, under the influence of this 
fear, go astray from the right path, David exhorts them to 
reflect upon the providence of God, and to rest assured that 
they are safe under his wings. He says, then, that the eyes 
of the Lord are upon the righteous, to preserve them, in order 
that the good and simple may persevere the more cheerfully 
in their uprightness. At the same time, he encourages them 
to supplication and prayer, if at any time the world should 
unjustly persecute them. In saying that the ears of the Lord 
~ are open to their cry, he teaches that the man who is wantonly 
and unjustly persecuted, will find a ready and suitable remedy 
in all afflictions, by calling upon God as his avenger. On 
the other hand, he declares, that although God sometimes 
appears to wink at the misdeeds of men, and seems to over- 
_ look them, because he does not inflict immediate punishment 
upon them, yet nothing escapes his inspection. Whilst 
the wicked, says he, by reason of their impunity harden 

themselves in sin, God is watching, that he may cut off 
their remembrance from the earth, (1 Pet. v. 10.) He 

speaks particularly of this kind of punishment, because the 
ungodly not only expect that they shall be happy during 
*their whole life, but also imagine that they shall enjoy 

1 That is, the anger of God. The face of God is often put for the anger 

of God, because this passion manifests itself particularly in the face. Thus 
in Lam. iv. 16, we read, ‘The anger [literally fuces] of the Lord hath 
divided them.” And in Lev. xx. 5, we read, “I will set my face [that is, 

my anger] against that man.” 


570 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIV. 


immortality in this world. Peter, in his First Epistle, applies 
this passage very judiciously, for the purpose of assuaging our 
sorrows and appeasing our impatience, as often as the pride 
and arrogance of the wicked may carry us beyond due limits. 
Nothing is more useful for preserving our moderation than 
to depend upon God’s help, and having the testimony of 
a good conscience, to rely upon his judgment. If it is ob- 
jected, that good men experience the contrary, who, after 
having been long afflicted, at length find no help or comfort ; 
I reply, that the aid which God affords to the righteous is 
not always made manifest, nor bestowed in the same measure ; 
and yet he so alleviates their troubles as never to forsake 
them. Besides, even the best of men often deprive them- 
selves of the help of God; for scarcely one in a hundred 
perseveres in such a course of integrity as not, by his own 
fault, to deserve the infliction of some evil upon himself. 
But as soon as they fall, lest sin should take root in them, 
God chastises them, and often punishes them more severely 
than the reprobate, whom he spares to utter destruction.? 
And yet, however much things may appear to be mingled 
and confused in the world, good men will find that God has 
not promised them help in vain against the violence and 
injuries of the wicked. 


17. They* cried, and Jehovah heard them. 'The Psalmist’s 
meaning is, that they are heard as often as they cry. This 
is a doctrine applicable to all times; and David does not 
merely relate what God has done once or twice, but what he 
is accustomed to do. It is also a confirmation of the pre- 
ceding sentence, where he had said that the ears of the Lord 


1 In his First Epistle, (chap. iii. 10, 11, 12,) he queiss the 12, 18, 14, 
15, and 16 verses of this psalm. He quotes from the Septuagint. 

a4 Lesquels il 1 e pour un temps, afin de pride ruiner lr Bi 

—‘‘ Whom he s or a time, to destroy them e 

8 It is wick pin who are spoken of in the paces Sci proseig 
verse; but they here evidently refers not to them, but to the rig 
mentioned in the fifteenth verse; and, accordingly, in all the” pe 
versions, and in our English Bible, the words the righteous are Saree: 
It is supposed by those who make this supplement, that the word 
tsaddikim, has been lost out of the text. “at if we read the 16th vere as 
a parenthesis, it will not be necessary to make any sup 2 rere and the 
words may be read exactly as they are in the Hebrew, 





PSALM XXXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 571 


are open to the cry of the righteous ; for he now demonstrates 
by the effect, that God is not deaf when we lay our complaints 
and groanings before him. By the word cry we are taught, 
that although God defend the righteous, they are not exempt 
from adversity. He regulates the protection which he affords 
them in such a wonderful manner, as that he notwithstanding 
exercises them by various trials. In like manner, when we 
here see that deliverance is promised only to those who call 
upon God, this ought to prove no small encouragement to us 
to pray to him; for it is not his will that the godly should so 
regard his providence as to indulge in idleness, but rather that, 
being firmly persuaded that he is the guardian of their safety, 
they should direct their prayers and supplications to him. 


18. Jehovah is nigh to those who are broken of heart ; he will save 
those who are bruised of spirit. 

19. Many are the afflictions of the righteous : but Jehovah will 
deliver him from them all. 

20. He keepeth all his bones : not one of them is broken.’ 

21. But malice shall slay the wicked ; and those who hate the 
righteous shall be destroyed. 

22. Jehovah redeemeth the soul of his servants, and those who trust 
in him shall not perish. 


18. Jehovah is nigh to those who are broken of heart. David 
here exemplifies and extends still more the preceding doctrine, 
that God is the deliverer of his people, even when they are 
brought very low, and when they are, as it were, half-dead. 
It is a very severe trial, when the grace of God is delayed, 
and all experience of it so far withdrawn, as that our spirits 

to fail; nay more, to say that God is nigh to the 
faithful, even when their hearts faint and fail them, and they 
are ready to die, is altogether incredible to human sense and 
reason. But by this means his power shines forth more 
clearly, when he raises us up again from the grave. Moreover, 
it is meet that the faithful should be thus utterly cast down 
and afflicted, that they may breathe again in God alone. 
From this we also learn, that nothing is more opposed to 


1 The last clause of this verse is applied in the Gospel of John (ch, xix. 
36) to Christ, and represented as receiving its fulfilment in him. 


572 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXIV. 


- 


true patience than the loftiness of heart of which the Stoies 
boast ; for we are not accounted truly humbled until true 
affliction of heart has abased us before God, so that, having 
prostrated ourselves in the dust before him, he may raise us 
up. Itisa doctrine full of the sweetest consolation, that God 
departs not from us, even when we are overwhelmed by a suc- 
cession of miseries, and, as it were, almost deprived of life. 


19. Many are the afflictions of the righteous. The Psalmist 
here anticipates the thought which often arises in the mind, 
“How can it be that God has a care about the righteous, who 
are continually harassed with so many calamities and trials? 
for what purpose does the protection of God serve, unless 
those who are peaceably inclined enjoy peace and repose? 
and what is more unreasonable, than that those who cause 
trouble to no one should themselves be tormented and af- 
flicted in all variety of ways?” That, therefore, the tempta- 
tions by which we are continually assailed may not shake our 
belief in the providence of God, we ought to remember this 
lesson of instruction, that although God governs the righteous, 
and provides for their safety, they are yet subject and exposed 
to many miseries, that, being tested by such trials, they may 
give evidence of their invincible constancy, and experience so 
much the more that God is their deliverer. If they were 
exempted from every kind of trial, their faith would languish, 
they would cease to call upon God, and their piety would 
remain hidden and unknown. It is, therefore, necessary that 
they should be exercised with various trials, and especially 
for this end, that they may acknowledge that they have been 
wonderfully preserved by God amidst numberless deaths. If 
this should seldom happen, it might appear to be fortuitous, 
or the result of chance; but when innumerable and inter- 
minable evils come upon them in succession, the grace of 
God cannot be unknown, when he always stretches forth his 
hand to them. David, therefore, admonishes the faithful 
never to lose their courage, whatever evils may threaten them ; 
since God, who can as easily deliver them a thousand times 
as once from death, will never disappoint their expectation. 
What he adds concerning their bones, seems not a little to 








PSALM XXXIV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 573 


illustrate the truth of this doctrine, and to teach us that 
those who are protected by God shall be free from all danger. 
He therefore declares, that God will take care that not one 
of their bones shall be broken; in which sense Christ also 
says, that “the very hairs of our head are all numbered,” 
(Luke xii. 7.) 


21. But malice shall slay the wicked. The Hebrew word 
my, radh, which I have translated malice, some would 
rather render misery, so that the meaning would be, that the 
ungodly shall perish miserably, because in the end they shall 
be overwhelmed with calamities. The other translation, how- 
ever, is more expressive, namely, that their wickedness, with 
which they think themselves fortified, shall fall upon their own 
heads. As Dayid therefore taught before, that there was no 
defence better than a just and blameless life, so now he 
declares, that all the wicked enterprises of the wicked, even 
though no one should in any thing oppose them, shall turn 
to their own destruction. In the second clause of the verse 
he states, that it is for the sake of the righteous that it 
is ordered, that the ungodly are themselves the cause and 
instruments of their own destruction. Those, says he, who 
hate the righteous shall be destroyed. Let this, therefore, be to 
us as a wall of brass and sure defence; that however nume- 
rous the enemies which beset us may be, we should not be 
afraid, because they are already devoted to destruction. The 
same thing David confirms in the last verse, in which he 
says, that Jehovah redeems the soul of his servants. How could 
they be preserved in safety, even for a moment, among so 
many dangers, unless God interposed his power for their 
defence? But by the word redeem there is expressed a kind 
of preservation which is repugnant to the flesh. For it is 
necessary that we should first be adjudged or doomed to 
death, before God should appear as our redeemer. From 
this it follows, that those who hurry forward too precipitately, 
and are unable to realise God’s power unless he appear 
speedily, working deliverance for them, intercept the com- 
munication of his grace. Moreover, that none might form 
_ their judgment of the servants of God by moral or philosophic 


574 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXY. | 


virtue only, as it is called, David specifies this as a principal — 
mark by which they may be known, that they trust in God, 
on whom also their salvation depends. 


PSALM XXXYV. 


So long as Saul was the enemy of David, the nobles, and such as at that 
time bore any authority, had (according to the subservient spirit which 
always prevails in the courts of kings) eagerly conspired to destroy 
an innocent man. They had also succeeded in inducing the common 
people to participate with them in their hatred and cruelty, so that all 
of them, from the highest to the lowest, burned with implacable hatred 
against him. But as he knew that the greatest part of them were 
thoughtlessly impelled to this by error and folly, and ignorance of the 
true state of affairs, he accounts those only his enemies who, from 
deliberate malice and wickedness, endeavoured in this way to please 
Saul, in order to obtain his favour. Against them he calls upon God 
for vengeance. And, first, as he was conscious of no crime, he alleges 
his innocence before God; and, secondly, as they sought to inflict 
unmerited punishment upon him, he implores God for deliverance. 
After he has complained of their impious cruelty, he calls down upon 
them the punishment which they deserved. Moreover, as in confident 
reliance upon the oracle of God, which had been spoken by Samuel, 
and the holy anointing, he hoped for a better issue, he intersperses 
throughout the psalm testimonies of his thankfulness. Finally, he con- 
cludes the psalm by saying, that after he has been delivered, he will 
celebrate the praises of God all his life. 


¥ A Psalm of David. 


1. Plead my cause, O Jehovah! with them that plead against me ; 
Jight against them who fight against me. 

2. Take the shield and the buckler, and rise up for my help. 

3. Bring forth the spear, and oppose my persecutors : say unto 
my soul, ‘* I am thy salvation.” 


1. Plead my cause, O Jehovah! As the enemies of Dayid 
not only avowedly sought to take away his life, but also 
troubled him by calumny and misrepresentation, he pleads 
for the redress of both these grievances. In the first place, by 





PSALM XXXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 575 


appealing to God for his aid in defence of his cause, he inti- 
mates, that he has to do with wicked and maligning men. 
In the second place, by urging him to take up arms, he shows 
that he was grievously oppressed. It was a very dishonour- 
able thing, that this holy man, alike eminent for his benefi- 
cence and inoffensiveness towards all men, and who by his 
courtesy and meekness had merited, both in public and 
private, the esteem and favour of all, was not permitted to 
_ escape the reproach and calumny of wicked men; but it is 
important for us to know this, and it sets before us a very 
profitable example. If even Dayid did not escape the malice 
of wicked men, it ought not to seem wonderful or strange to us, 
if they blame and bite at us. The injuries they inflict upon 
us may be grievous and painful, but there is incomparable 
consolation presented to us in this consideration, that God 
himself interposes for our protection and defence against 
false accusations, ‘Though calumniators, then, should arise, 
and tear us, as it were, to pieces, by falsely charging us with 
crimes, we need not be disturbed, so long as God undertakes 
to plead our cause against them. There can be no doubt, 
that in the second clause of the verse David implores God to 
resist the armed violence of his enemies. The amount of the 


. whole is, that being falsely accused and cruelly persecuted, 


and finding no help at the hands of men, the Prophet commits 
the preservation of his life and his reputation to God. 


2. Take the shield. These words certainly cannot be ap- 
plied, in the strict and proper sense, to God, who has no 
need of the spear or buckler: for by the breath of his mouth 
alone, or merely with his nod, he is able to overthrow all his 
enemies. But although such figures at first sight appear 
rude, yet the Holy Ghost employs them in accommodation 
to the weakness of our understanding, for the purpose of 
impressing more effectually.upon our minds the conviction 
that God is present to aid us. When troubles and dangers 
arise, when terrors assail us on every side, when even death 
presents itself to our view, it is difficult to realise the secret 
and invisible power of God, which is able to deliver us from 
all anxiety and fear; for our understandings, which are gross 


576 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXY. 


and earthly, tend downward to the earth. That our faith, — 
therefore, may ascend by degrees to the heavenly power of 

God, he is here introduced armed, after the manner of men, 
with sword and shield. In the same way, also, when he is in 
another place termed “a man of war,” it is doubtless in adap- 
tation to the imperfection of our present state, because our 
minds, from their limited capacity, could in no other way com- 
prehend the extent of that infinite power, which contains in 
itself every form of help, and has no need of aid from any other 
quarter. This, therefore, is a prayer that God, by the exer- 
cise of his secret and intrinsic power, would show that he 
alone is able to encounter the whole strength and forces of the 
ungodly. Some suppose that the Hebrew word DX, ésinnah, 
here used, means a dart, or some other kind of weapon ; but 
as we have already seen, in the fifth psalm, that it properly 
signifies a buckler, I see no reason why it should be differently 
interpreted in this place. Nor is there any thing at all 
inconsistent in connecting here, as is often done in other 
places, the buckler and the shield. If the expression here 
employed had been designed to signify a dart, or a similar 
weapon, it would have been more natural to connect it with 
the spear, of which mention is made in the following verse. 
David, then, first makes mention of defensive armour, pray- 
ing that God would sustain and repel the assaults of the 
enemy. The Hebrew word )™, rik, which signifies to un- 
sheath, or make bare, I take simply to mean, to draw out, or 
bring forth. The Hebrew word "\3D, segor, which I have 
translated to oppose, literally signifies ¢o shut or to close. But 
as David’s meaning is, that God, by setting himself as a wall 
or rampart, would prevent his enemies from approaching him, 
it appears to me that I have faithfully translated it. At the 
same time, if any should prefer the translation to shut, or 
close the way, or to impede it by some obstacle, the meaning is 


1 The word rendered shield is in the Hebrew text j1», magen, which was 
a short buckler intended merely for defence. The word rendered buck- 
ler is nxx, tsinnah, for an account of which see note, p. 64. The tsinnah 
was double the weight of the magen, and was carried by the infantry; the 
magen, being lighter and more manageable, was used by the cavalry. The 
tsinnah answered to the scutum, and the magen to the clypeus, among the 
Romans.—See Pazton’s Illustrations of Scripture, vol. iu. pp. 366, 367. — 





- PSALM XXXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 577 


substantially the same. The opinion of those who contend 
that it is a noun,’ is not at all probable. 


3. Say to my soul. Some expound these words thus: De- 
clare to me by secret inspiration; and others, Make me to 
feel indeed that my salvation is in thy hand. In my opinion, 
David desires to have it thoroughly fixed in his mind, and to 
be fully persuaded that God is the author of his salvation. 
This he was unable, from the present aspect of things, to 
ascertain and determine; for such is the insensibility and 
dulness of our natures, that God often delivers us whilst we 
sleep and are ignorant of it. Accordingly, he makes use of 
a very forcible manner of expression, in praying that God 
would grant him a lively sense of his favour, so that being 
armed with this buckler, he might sustain every conflict, 
and surmount every opposing obstacle; as if he had said, 
Lord, whatever may arise to discourage me, confirm me in 
this persuasion, that my salvation is assuredly in thee; and 
although temptations drive me hither and thither, recall my 
thoughts to thee in such a manner, as that my hope of salva- 
tion may rise superior to all the dangers to which I shall be 
exposed ;” nay, more, that I may become as infallibly certain as 
if thou hadst said it, that through thy favour I shall be saved. 


4. Let those who seek my soul be confounded and put to shame ; 
and let those who devise my hurt be turned back, and 
brought to confusion. 

5. Let them be as chaff before the wind, and let the angel of 
Jehovah thrust [or impel] them.* 

6. Let their way be darkness and slipperiness, and let the angel 
of Jehovah pursue them. 

7. For they have hid for me without cause their net in a pit, 
without cause they have digged a pit* for my soul. 

1 Those who are of opinion that nv, segor, is a noun, translate it ‘‘ the 
scymitar,” and read, ‘‘ Draw out.the spear, and the scymitar, to o ppose my 
utors.” According to Drusius, Vitringa, Michaelis, Dr Kennteott, and 
others, the word means caves, or scymitar, a sort of battle-axe, which 

was used by the Persians, Scythians, and other nations in ancient times, 
2 “ Que l’esperance de mon salut surpasse tous les dangers qui me seront 


livrez.”—Fr. 
3“ C'est, chasse et presse.”—Note, Fr. marg. “That is, chase and 


pursue them.” 
* The allusion here is to the custom of digging = and putting nets in 


them, covered with straw, &c., to catch wild 
VOL. I. 20 


578 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXY. 


4. Let those who seek my soul be confounded. David now 
calls upon God to take vengeance upon his enemies; and he 
asks not only that he would disappoint and destroy their 
designs, but also that he would recompense them according 
to their deserts. In the first place, he desires that they may be 
confounded and put to shame in seeing their expectation and 
desire fail; and then he proceeds farther, desiring that while 
they imagine themselves to be firmly established, and deeply 
rooted, they may be like chaff or stubble. As the chaff is driven 
with the wind, so also he desires, that, being disquieted by the 
secret impulse of the angel of the Lord, they may never have 
rest. The imprecation which follows is even more dreadful, and 
it is this : that wherever they go they may meet with darkness 
and slippery places; and that in their doubt and perplexity 
the angel of the Lord would pursue them. In fine, whatever 
they devise, and to whatever side they turn, he prays that 
all their counsels and enterprises may come to a disastrous 
termination. When he desires that they may be driven by the 
angel of the Lord, we learn from this that the reason why 
the ungodly are troubled, though no man pursues them, is, 
that God smites them with a spirit of amazement, and dis- 
tracts them with such fears that they tremble and are troubled. 

The same thing he expresses more clearly in the following 
verse, praying that the angel of the Lord would drive them 
through dark and slippery places, so that reason and under- 
standing might fail them, and that they might not know 
whither to go, nor what to become, nor have even time given 
them to draw their breath. We need not be surprised that this 
work should be assigned to the angels, by whose instrument- 
ality God executes his judgments. At the same time, this 
passage may be expounded of the devils as well as of the holy 
angels, who are ever ready to execute the divine behests. We 
know that the devil is permitted to exercise his dominion over 
the reprobate ; and hence it is often said that “ an evil spirit 
from God came upon Saul,” (1 Sam. xviii. 10.) But as the 
devils never execute the will of God, unless compelled to do it 
when God wishes to serve himself of them ; the Sacred Serip- 
tures declare that the holy and elect angels are in a much 
higher sense the servants of God. God, then, executes his 
judgments by the wicked and reprobate angels; but he gives 





PSALM XXXyY. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 579 


the elect angels the pre-eminence over them. On this account, 
also, good angels only are called rightfully “ principalities,” 
as in Eph. iii. 10; Col. i. 16, and other similar passages. If 
it is objected that it is not meet that the angels, who are 
the ministers of grace and salvation, and the appointed guard- 
ians of the faithful, should be employed in executing judg- 
ment upon the reprobate, the explanation is simply this, that 
they cannot watch for the preservation of the godly without 
being prepared for fighting—that they cannot succour them 
by their aid without also opposing their enemies, and de- 
celaring themselves to be against them. The style of impre- 
cation which the Psalmist here employs can be explained 
only by bearing in mind what I have elsewhere said, namely, 
that Dayid pleads not simply his own cause, nor utters rashly 
the dicates of passion, nor with unadvised zeal desires the 
destruction of his enemies; but under the guidance of the 
Holy Spirit he entertains and expresses against the reprobate 
such desires as were characterised by great moderation, 
and which were far removed from the spirit of those who are 
impelled either by desire of revenge or hatred, or some other 
inordinate emotion of the flesh. 


7. For they have hid for me without a cause. He here 
declares that he did not take the name of God in vain, nor call 
upon him for protection without just cause, for he openly 
asserts his innocence, and complains that he was thus severely 
afflicted without having committed any crime, or given any 
occasion to hisenemies. It becomes us carefully to mark this, 
so that no one may rush unadyisedly into God’s presence, 
nor call upon him for vengeance, without the assurance and 
testimony of a good conscience. When he says that he was 
assailed by stratagem, fraud, and wicked practices, there is 
implied in this a tacit commendation of his own integrity. 


8. Let confusion of which he is not aware come upon him; and 
let his own net which he hath hidden catch himself: let 
him fall into it with confusion. 

9. And my soul is joyful in Jehovah, it shall be glad in his sal- 
vation. 

10. All my bones shall say, O Jehovah! who is like thee, that 


580 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXV. 


deliverest the poor from him that is stronger than he, the 
poor and miserable from him that spoileth him ? 


8. Let confusion of which he is not aware come upon him. 
David again prays that God would cause to return upon the 
head of his enemies the mischief which they had directed 
against a just and an inoffensive man. The change from the 
plural to the singular number, even when the same subject is 
spoken of, is, we know, a thing very common among the He- 
brews. Accordingly, what is here said of one man is appli- 
cable to all David’s enemies in general, unless, perhaps, we are 
rather inclined to suppose that allusion is here made to Saul or 
some one of his nobles. But as it is certain that the prayer 
which he here offers against Saul as the head extends to the 
whole body, in other words, to all his followers,’ it matters little 
_ in which way we understand it. The Hebrew word AN WY, 
shoah, sometimes signifies confusion, and sometimes destruc- 
tion ; and, therefore, many translate it, Let destruction, or deso- 
lation, or ruin, come upon him. The other rendering, however, 
seems more suitable, for he immediately adds, Let his own net 
which he hath hidden catch him, let him fall into it with confu- 
sion. The way in which others render it, Let him fall into 
destruction itself, is certainly forced and unnatural. But the 
meaning of the clause will be brought out very suitable if it 
is viewed as a prayer of David, that as the wicked settle 
down like wine upon the lees, in present enjoyments, and 
fear nothing, as if they were placed beyond the reach of all 
danger, some calamity which they think not of may sud- 
denly come upon them like a tempest, and overwhelm 
them. It never for a moment occurs to them as at all 
possible that their stratagems and craft, their wicked prac- 
tices, and all the snares which they lay for the good and the 
simple, turn to the destruction of themselves who have devised 
them. David, therefore, very properly desires that they 
may fall with confusion into the nets which they have laid ; 
in other words, that they may be filled with amazement 
and terror when they are suddenly and unexpectedly visited 
with calamity. The more unbounded and extravagant the 


1 “ Qu’ll fait yei contre Saul comme le chef, s’estend & tout le corps ; 
c’est a dire, 4 tous ses adherens.”—Jr, 





PSALM XXXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS, 581 


exultation of men is, through their vainly and foolishly ima- 
gining that they shall escape unpunished, the more are they 
filled with amazement and fear when calamity suddenly over- 
takes them. I have, however, no doubt that David here 
refers to some strange and extraordinary calamity. Let con- 
Susion, then, of which he thinks not, come upon him; that is 
to say, when he shall have persuaded himself that all goes 
well with him, and promised himself peace in his deceitful 
fascinations, then let unwonted terror strike him to the heart, 
and let him feel by his tumultuous fear that he is caught in 
his own snares. 


9. And my soul is joyful in Jehovah. Others read this in 
the optative mood, May my soul rejoice in Jehovah, and may 
it be glad in his salvation. But instead of continuing to ex- 
press his desires, David, in my opinion, rather promises in 
this verse that he will be grateful to God. This is still more 
evident from the following verse, in which extolling very 
highly the goodness of God, he says that he will celebrate 
the remembrance of it with every member of his body. 
While, therefore, some ascribe to fortune, and others to their 
own skill, the praise of their deliverance from danger, and 
few, if any, yield the whole praise of it to God, David here 
declares that he will not forget the favour which God had 
bestowed upon him. My soul, says he, shall rejoice, not 
in a deliverance of the author of which it is ignorant, but 
in the salvation of God. To place the matter in a still 
stronger light, he assigns to his very bones the office of 
declaring the divine glory. As if not content that his tongue 
should be employed in this, he applies all the members of his 
' body to the work of setting forth the praises of God. The 
style of speaking which he employs is hyperbolical, but in 
this way he shows unfeignedly that his love to God was so 
strong that he desired to spend his sinews and bones in 
declaring the reality and truth of his devotion. 


10. O Jehovah! who is like thee? Here he explains more 
fully the nature of his joy in the salvation of God of which 
. he had spoken, showing that it consisted in his ascribing en- 


582 _COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXV. 


tirely to God the deliverance which he had obtained. Men, 
in general, praise God in such a manner that he scarcely ob- 
tains the tenth part of his due. But David, distinguishing 
him from all others, distinctly declares that the whole glory 
of his deliverance is due-to him alone. And, certainly, we 
then only yield to God what belongs to him, when, investing 
him with his own power, we rest all our hopes on him. For 
what purpose does it serve, loudly to celebrate the name of God 
with our mouths, if we tear in pieces his power and goodness 
at our pleasure? David, therefore, in the true spirit of god- 
liness, extols the greatness of God by this high encomium, 
that he is the guardian and defender of the poor, and rescues 
the needy and afflicted from the hand of those who oppress 
them ; as if he had said, It is God’s peculiar duty to succour 
the miserable. By these words we are taught to cling to the 
hope of better things in adversity ; for the power and resources 
of our enemies, however great they may be, is no reason why 
we should lose our confidence, since God declares to us from 
heaven that he reigns expressly for the purpose of resisting 
the strong and powerful. If the children of this world, who 
employ their power in injuring and oppressing the weak, had 
the least degree of sound understanding, it would certainly 
serve to restrain their audacity, and prevent them proceeding 
farther in provoking the wrath of God. 

11. Violent witnesses rise up, they charge me with things which I 
know not. 

12. They render me evil for good, to the bereaving* of my soul. 

13. But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sack- 
cloth: I afflicted my soul with fasting; and have poured 
my prayer into my own bosom, 

14. I behaved myself towards himas if he had been my friend 
and brother: I humbled myself as one that mourneth heavily 
for his mother. 

15. But they rejoiced at my halting, they gathered themselves 
together ; yea, even the abjects whom I knew not gathered 
themselves against me : they have torn me with their lips, 
and have not ceased. 


11. Violent witnesses’ rise up. The Hebrew is, they shall rise 


1 “ ©’est, desconforter.”—Note, Fr. marg. “That is, to the discomfort.” 
? “pen sy, witnesses of wrong or violence; 1. €., witnesses deponing to acts of 
violence, as committed by the person accused. See Ps. xxvii. 12. ”— Horsley. 














PSALM XXXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 583 


up; but in using the future tense, the Psalmist intimates that 
he is speaking of what he had suffered for a long time. And 
he complains that he was so oppressed with calumny that he 
had no opportunity of defending himself: than which nothing 
more grievous and painful can ever happen to those of an 
ingenuous mind, and who are conscious of no blame. Besides, 
he not only says that he had been falsely accused, but he also 
condemns the audacity and insolence of those who violently 
rose up to bear witness against him. To this belongs what he 
adds, They charge me with things which I know not. David 
then was not only spoiled of his worldly goods, and basely 
driven into exile, but was also accused and loaded with infamy 
under colour of justice. Being involved in such distress, 
he resorted directly to God, hoping that he would maintain 
his innocence. So ought the children of God to walk through 
good report and bad report, and patiently suffer reproach, 
until he assert and declare their innocence from on high. 
In old times, it was a common proverb among the heathen, 
“ There is no theatre more beautiful than a good conscience ;” 
and in this they uttered a noble sentiment ; but no man can 
be sustained and supported by the purity of his conscience 
unless he has recourse to God. 


12. They render me evil for good. David again shows that 
the malice of his enemies was of a very aggravated character, 
because they not only oppressed him wrongfully, seeing he was 
innocent, and had given them no occasion of offence, but also 
because even those who had received much enjoyment and 
many favours from him, recompensed him in a very strange 
and ungrateful manner. Such disgraceful conduct wounds 
the feelings of good men very severely, and seems quite into- 
lerable. But it is an inexpressibly great consolation when we 
ean testify before God, that we have attempted by every 
means in our power to soothe the minds of our enemies, and 
to bow them to gentleness, although, notwithstanding, they 
are hurried on by insatiable cruelty in desiring our hurt; 
for God will not suffer this barbarous and brutal ingrati- 
tude to pass unpunished. Their cruelty is farther expressed 


584 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXV. 


+ 


when it is said that they endeavoured to bereave (for so it is 
properly in the Hebrew’) the soul of a meek and peaceable 
man; that is to say, to deprive it of comfort, and render it 
so desolate as to overwhelm it with despair and destroy it. 
David afterwards recounts certain acts of kindness which he 
had done them, and which, if they had had any sense of equity 
and humanity, ought to have been as so many sacred bonds of 
mutual love. He does not say that he aided them with money 
or with goods, or that he had by some other means exercised 
liberality towards them, for it may sometimes happen that when 
the hand is open the heart may be shut; but he mentions certain 
tokens of true and genuine love—that he lamented their mis- 
fortunes before God, and was troubled for them, as if he had 
mourned for the death of his mother; and, finally, that he 
felt for and took an interest in them as if they had been his own 
brothers. Since then he had thus laid them under high obli- 
gations to him, of what baser ingratitude could they be guilty 
than to vomit against him in his adversity the poison of their 
hatred? With respect to the meaning of the words, I take 
the term sickness, in this place, to signify metaphorically any 
kind of trouble or sorrow. David’s meaning is, that as often 
as any calamity had befallen them he was a partaker of their 
grief. A good evidence of this was the prayer which he says 
he poured out into his own bosom. The proper meaning of the 
expression is, that he did not ostentatiously utter his prayers 
aloud before men, like many who pretend much more affection 
than they really feel, but that by praying in secret, and without 
making the world privy to it, he showed that he was sincerely 
and from the heart distressed by reason of their affliction. As 
we say that a man rejoices in his own bosom, who is satisfied 
with the secret and inward feeling of his heart, without declar- 
ing it to others, so also one may be said to weep or pray in his 
own bosom, who pours not forth his tears and prayers before 
men to secure their favour, but, contented with having God 
alone for his witness, conceals his emotions in his own heart. 
I do not, however, deny that in this manner of speaking there is 


1 “ Ont tasché de rendre orpheline car ily a ainsi proprement en He- 
brieu.”— Fr. 











PSALM XXXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 585 


expressed the attitude of one who prays, as if the Psalmist 
had said, that he bowed down his body, and prayed with his 
head hanging down, and his arms folded, as men in heaviness 
are accustomed to do.' But this especially we ought to 
regard as his meaning, that there was no dissimulation in his 
prayer. Some think that there is an imprecation in his 
words, and they explain them in this sense: Lord, if it is true 
that I have not desired all prosperity to them, let all mischief 
fall upon me: but this is a forced explanation. There is 
still another exposition, which has as little plausibility in it ; 
and it is this : Because I profited nothing by praying for them, 
the fruit of my prayer returned to myself. The sense, which 
is more in unison with the purpose and also the words of the 
prophet, is, I prayed for them just as I pray for myself. But 
what I have already advanced concerning the secret affection 
of the Psalmist will, I hope, prove satisfactory to the judi- 
cious reader. With respect to sackcloth and fasting, he used 
them as helps to prayer. The faithful pray even after their 
meals, and do not observe fasting every day as necessary 
for prayer, nor consider it needful to put on sackcloth when- 
ever they come into the presence of God. But we know 
that those who lived in ancient times resorted to these exer- 
cises when any urgent necessity pressed upon them. In the 
time of public calamity or danger they all put on sack- 
cloth, and gave themselves to fasting, that by humbling them- 
selves before God, and acknowledging their guilt, they might 
appease his wrath. In like manner, when any one in parti- 
cular was afflicted, in order to excite himself to greater ear- 
nestness in prayer, he put on sackcloth and engaged in fasting, 
as being the tokens of grief. When David then, as he here 
tells us, put on sackcloth, it was the same as if he had taken 
upon himself the sins of his enemies, in order to implore from 
God mercy for them, while they were exerting all their power 
to accomplish his destruction. Although we may reckon the 
wearing of sackcloth and sitting in ashes among the number of 
the legal ceremonies, yet the exercise of fasting remains in 


1 “ When the Orientals,” says Boothroyd, ‘ pray seriously in grief, 
they hide their face in their bosom: and to this custom the Psalmist here 
alludes. Rabbi, Levi, Dathe, and others, explain it in like manner.” 


586 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXV. 


force amongst us at this day as well as in the time of David. 
When God, therefore, calls us to repentance, by showing us 
signs of his displeasure, let us bear in mind that we ought 
not only to pray to him after the ordinary manner, but also 
to employ such means as are fitted to promote our humility. 
In conclusion, the Psalmist says that he behaved and acted 
towards them as if each of them had been his brother. 


15. But they rejoiced at my halting. I see no reason why 
interpreters should trouble themselves as they do about 
the word halting. Some conjecture that David had his leg 
put out of joint, and others suppose that he halted from some 
disease. But when we consider carefully the whole passage, 
nothing is more evident than that he refers by this expression 
to the calamities which befell him; as if he had said, As soon 
as they saw me begin to stagger and ready to fall, they did 
as it were gather together against me, and endeavoured en- 
tirely to overthrow me. There is, therefore, in this expres- 
sion almost the same metaphor as we have already seen in the 
word sickness. Now, as men often relent at seeing the mis- 
fortunes of their enemies, so that they cease to hate or perse- 
cute those who are already miserably wretched, it was an 
evidence of the very cruel and fierce spirit by which David’s 
former friends were actuated against him, when, upon seeing 
him cast down and afflicted, they were rather by this incited 
furiously and insolently to assail him. At the commence- 
ment he speaks only of a few; but immediately after, in 
order to show still farther the indignity which had been done 
to him, he adds to them the base and ignoble of the common 
people; not that he blames all alike, but that he may the better 
show with what bitter hostility he was assailed on all sides. 
It is probable that those who were then in power were as it 
were firebrands, who endeavoured to kindle every where the 
flame of hatred against David, that the people every where 
might rise up to destroy him, and strive with each other in this 
enterprise. And he repeats twice that they gathered themselves 
together, in order to show how resolute and determined they 
were in their opposition to him; unless, perhaps, some would 





PSALM XXXY. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 587 


prefer to explain the words thus : They gathered themselves 
together, not only those who had some pretext for doing so, 
but even the lowest of the people. The Hebrew word [3'53, 
nehim, literally signifies the whipped, or beaten,' but it is here 
to be understood as denoting base and disreputable persons. 
Some interpreters, indeed, derive it from the word AND, adh, 
which signifies to make sad, and expound it actively, Those 
who make me sad: but the previous interpretation agrees 
better with the design of the passage, namely, that David was 
shamefully treated by the lowest dregs of the people. The 
words, I knew not, may be referred to the cause as well as to 
the persons. I, however, explain it as referring to the per- 
sons in this sense: So far from having any cause to complain 
that I have offended them, or done them any harm, I did not 
even know them. At the same time, these words may be 
understood as implying a complaint on the part of David, that 
the people were enraged against him without any cause, since 
he is conscious of no crime, and can conceive of no ground 
for such fierce hatred towards him. As to the last clause of 
the verse, also, although interpreters entertain different opi- 
nions, it appears to me that I have given the true and natural 
_ meaning. Literally it is, they did cut, and ceased not; but 

there can be no doubt that the language is metaphorical, 
and that the word cut? signifies that they opened their mouth ; 


1 The word is derived from 23, nakah, to strike or to smite. The LXX. 
render it pasriyes, scourges; and Jerome reads percutientes, smiters, in 
which he is followed by Ainsworth, who understands the word as meaning 
smiters with the tongue, or calumniators, and who thinks that the LXX., 
in translating it scourges, alluded to the scourge of the tongue, as in Job vy. 
21 ; and if smiters is the proper rendering, we may certainly conclude, that 
as this smiting is represented as done upon the person who was its object 
in his absence, it was a smiting by the tongue. At the same time, this 
critic observes, that the word may be read the smitten, that is, abjects, vile 
persons, as in Job xxx. 8. Dr Kennicott translates it by verberones, whipt 
slaves, vile scoundrels. Another meaning of the word, according to Bux- 
torff, is, the wry-legged, the lame. In this sense it is used in 2 Sam. iv. 4, 
and ix. 3; and hence the epithet of Necho was given to one of the Pha- 
raohs, who halted in his gait. Thus it easily came to be employed as a 
term of contempt. Calvin and the translators of our English Bible agree 
in the meaning which they attach to this word. 

* The verb yxp, kara, for cut, “ is significant of tearing or rending, and 
by an easy metaphor, is applicable to wounds inflicted by evil speaking 
and slander.”— Walford. 


588 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXY. 


- 


as if David had said, They have insolently poured forth with 
open mouth their scoffing and reproachful words against me. 
The additional clause in the sentence, and ceased not, is a repe- 
tition common in the Hebrew language, and is employed to 
express the vehemence with which David’s enemies proceeded 
against him. It implies that there was no end or measure 
to their evil-speaking, and that they continued to pour forth 
with distended throats whatever first occurred to them. 


16. Among perfidious jesters at feasts, they gnash upon me with 
their teeth. 

17. O Lord! how long wilt thou look on ? deliver my soul from 
their tumults, and my only one? from the lions. 

18, I will magnify thee in the great congregation: I will praise 
thee before a great people? 


16. Among perfidious jesters. Others translate it, With 
hypocrites, but in my opinion David simply relates the com- 
bination of his enemies. And the meaning of the expression 
is to this effect, That among men of a crafty disposition, who 
had been addicted to deceit, and were consequently lost to 
all sense of shame, the only and the constant subject of 
their deliberations was, how they might destroy this afflicted 
man. David again reverts to the leaders of the people, 
and to those in power, as the source whence all the mischief 
took its rise; for this description could not apply to a great 
part of the common people, who acted rather by thoughtless 
impulse. He therefore speaks particularly of the rulers, and 
others of a similar character, and accuses them of cruelty, 
saying, that they gnash their teeth upon him like furious 


1 Domine.—Lat. smx, Adonai.—Heb. ‘‘ More than fifteen copies col- 
lected by Dr Kennicott have ™™ here instead of sx, Among which is 
one of the best manuscripts that has been collated. The Jews, in later 
ages, had a superstitious fear of pronouncing the word ™m, and there- 
fore inserted ‘nx or 75x, in the place of it very frequently.” —Street. 

2 “ Ascavoir, mon ame unique; c’est & dire, solitaire et delaissee.”— 
Note, Fr. marg. ‘‘ Namely, my soul alone; that is to say, solitary and for- 
saken.” See note 3, p. 432. In our English Bible the phrase is, “my 
darling ;” but David rather means to intimate his forsaken and unprotected 
condition, unless God interposed in his behalf. Green reads, ‘* my help- 
less person.” 

3“ Devant un grand peuple.”—Fr. ‘‘ C’est, beaucoup de peuple.”— 
Note, Fr. marg. ‘* That is, much people.” 








a ee 


PSALM XXXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 589 


wild beasts. He first calls them perfidious or wicked, that he 
may the more easily obtain help and aid of God, as if calling 
upon him in the extremity of distress ; and, secondly, he calls 
them jesters or mockers, by which he means that they have 
such effrontery, and are so far lost to all sense of shame, that 
there is nothing which they will not dare todo. As to the 
meaning of the word })Yi, maog, which follows, interpreters 
are not agreed. Properly, it signifies bread baked upon the 
hearth upon the embers. Some, however, because they could 
not elicit from it a meaning suitable to the passage, have 
thought that it should be taken for talkative jesting, or idle 
speech. Others, presuming to give a still wider range to 
their fancy, have supposed the meaning of the Psalmist to 
be, that the scoffing of such persons was as bread to them, 
because they take pleasure in scoffing and jesting. To me, 
it appears that we ought to retain the proper signification of 
the word, while, at the same time, it may be understood in 
a twofold sense. Some taking ))Y, maog, for a cake or tart, 
are of opinion that David here censures people of a delicate 
taste, who seek after fine and dainty fare, many of whom are 
always to be found in the courts of princes. Others rather 
suppose that he rebukes persons of a servile and sordid spirit, 
~ who, for the most trifling consideration, would employ their 
tongues in reviling others, just as in all ages there have been 
found men who, for a bit of bread, as we say, set their 
tongues to sale. When I carefully consider other pass- 
ages in which David describes the nature and character of 
his enemies, I am disposed to think that those who indulged 
in jesting and scofling at feasts, and who, in sitting over their 
cups, consulted about putting David to death, are here re- 
ferred to. He therefore complains, that even in the midst of 
their feasting and banqueting, the ungodly, who had shaken 
off all shame, communed how they might take away his life. 


17. O Lord! how long wilt thou look on? The meaning of 
the word which I have translated how long, is ambiguous in 
the Hebrew. In Latin it signifies, How long wilt thou see 
it, and suffer it without uttering a word? But the other 
interpretation is equally appropriate, namely, After having 


590 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXKV. - 


seemed to take no notice of the matter for a long time, when 
wilt thou at length begin to see it? The meaning, however, 
is substantially the same, for David complains of God's long 
forbearance, declaring that while the wicked are running to 
every excess, God connives at them, and delays too much to 
take vengeance. And although God inculcates upon the 
faithful the duty of quietly and patiently waiting till the time 
arrive when he shall judge it proper to help them, yet he allows 
them to bewail in prayer the grief which they experience on 
account of his delay. At the same time, David shows, that 
in so speaking he is not carried headlong merely by the 
importunity of his desire, but that he is constrained to it by 
the extremity of his distress. For he says that they tumul- 
tuously rush upon him to take away his life, and he compares 
them to ions, and calls his soul solitary, or alone. Some think 
that the expression, only soul, means dear and precious, or 
well beloved; but such do not sufficiently consider the design 
of David, as has been stated in the 22d Psalm at the twenty- 
first verse. 


18. I will magnify thee in the great congregation. In this 
verse David again engages to give thanks to God for all his 
goodness, since the faithful can render him no other recom- 
pense than the sacrifice of praise, as we shall see in Psalm 
exvi. 17. Thus even whilst he was surrounded by the im- 
petuous billows of fear and danger, he sets himself to the 
exercise of giving thanks, as if he had already obtained 
his desire; and by this he intended to encourage and con- 
firm himself in the assurance of obtaining his requests. In 
this we may discern a striking and decided evidence of invin- 
cible fortitude, for though an outcast and a fugitive, destitute 
of all help, and, in short, in a state of great extremity and 
despair as to all his affairs, yet still he thinks of praising 
God’s grace, and makes vows of solemn sacrifice to him, as 
if, in the midst of the darkness of death, he saw deliverance 
clearly shining upon him. And he speaks not only of giving 
thanks in private, but of such thanksgiving as those who 
were delivered out of any great perils were wont to yield in 
the public assembly, by the appointment of the law. Some 








PSALM XXXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 591 


translate the latter clause of the verse a strong and powerful 
people,’ but I do not see the propriety of it. It is a mere 
subtilty to argue that the Church is endued with great 
strength, and therefore is called a strong people. But as 
Dayid simply means the great crowd and multitude of people 
who were wont to go up to the sanctuary to hold their 
solemn assembly before God, I have no doubt that when he 
speaks of the great congregation, and afterwards of much people, 
he only repeats, according to his custom, the same thing 
twice, for the Hebrew word is used in both these senses. 


19. Let not those who are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over 
me ; neither let those who hate me without a cause wink with 
the eye. 

20. For they speak not peace ;* but devise deceitful words upon 
the clefts of the earth. 

21. They have opened their mouth against me: they have said, 
Aha! aha! our eye hath seen it.® 

22. O Jehovah ! thou hast also seen it: keep not silence: O Lord! 
be not far from me. 

23. Stir up thyself, and awake for my judgment, O my God! 
even for my cause, O my Lord! 


_ 19. Let not those who are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me. 
Because Davyid’s enemies already exulted in the hope of seeing 
his overthrow and destruction, he prays that God would not 
suffer them to realise a desire so wicked. In order to render 
God favourable to his cause, he again protests that they hated 
him without any fault or occasion on his part, and that it 
was their own malice which urged them to such cruelty against 
him ; for in order to secure the help of God, it is necessary 
to come before him with the testimony of a good conscience. 


’ Horsley takes this view. He reads, ‘‘ Among a mighty people ;” and 
observes, that this is the rendering of the Chaldee, and that Os» seems 
more properly to ag 2 ee sare or aie than number. 

2 “C'est, ne tienent —Note, Fr. marg. “That is, their 
discourse isnot that of rit hag 

“ C'est, ce que nous desirions.”—Note, Fr. marg. ‘ That is, that 
which we © desire French and Skinner read, “ Aha! aha! our eye 
seeth !” “that is,” they observe, “* beholds our enemy in the fallen condition 
in which we desire to see him. See verse 25, compare Ps. xcii. 11.” 


. ie 


592 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXXV. 


The Hebrew word “pw, sheker, which we have rendered 
wrongfully, is by some translated deceitfully, as if David 
meant that his enemies lay in wait for him. But this is to 
reason with too much subtilty. Besides, the repetition which 
immediately follows shows that he complains of their wilful 
hatred, inasmuch as of their own accord, and from deliberate 
design, they persecuted a man who had given them no cause 
of offence, but was their friend and benefactor. The Hebrew 
word 7), Aarats, here signifies to wink with the eyes askance 
in mockery, as in Psalm xxii. 8, it denotes, to wag the head, 
and to shoot out the lip. 

In the following verse, that he may cherish still greater 
confidence in God, David again declares, that he has to do with 
enemies of an irreconcileable character, and who are fully bent 
upon cruelty. Of this we ought to be firmly persuaded, that 
the more grievously we are oppressed, so much the more 
certainly ought we to expect deliverance. He therefore says, 
that they speak of nothing but of tumults and slaughter. 
The meaning of the latter clause is somewhat obscure, arising 
from the sinbiguons signification of the word YIn, rige. As 
the word from which it is derived sometimes signifies to cut, 
and sometimes ¢o rest, or to be quiet and peaceable, there are 
some who translate it the meek and peaceable of the earth: 
others translate it, with the tranquil and easy of the earth; 
meaning by this, those who live in the midst of riches and 
abundance, in the enjoyment of undisturbed repose. Both these 
seem to me to be forced interpretations. Others, too, though 
not more correctly, expound the word in caves or secret places, 
in order that, as they say, the wicked and deceitful counsels 
of such persons may not come to light. But it may be very 
appropriately rendered, the clefts of the earth, and by this 
metaphor are meant the miserable and afflicted, who are, as 
it were, broken and maimed. David, therefore, declares that 
as soon as his enemies see any opening, that is to say, some 
calamity befall him, they instantly put forth all their efforts 
to accomplish his destruction. Those who, in the time of 
his prosperity and power, never dared even to utter a word 
against him, began now, when they saw that his influence 
was feeble, to plot his ruin, just as we know that the wicked 


PSALM XXXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 593 


are for the most part persons of a servile and cowardly dis- 
position, and assume not the tone of insolence save when an 
advantageous opportunity presents itself, as when the good 
and simple are in adversity. ‘To the same purpose he repre- 
sents them in the next verse, as crying out with open mouth, 
Aha! aha! and clapping their hands for joy that they saw 
Dayid overcome, and, as it were, laid prostrate in the dust, 
a spectacle in which they took great delight. 


22. O Jehovah! thou hast also seen it. There is in these 
words an implied contrast between the view which God is 
here represented as taking, and the sight at which, as we 
are told in the preceding verse, the ungodly rejoiced. The 
import of Dayid’s language is, You have rejoiced exceedingly 
at the sight of my miseries; but God also sees and takes 
notice of the cruelty and malice of those who feel a pleasure 
and gratification in seeing others afflicted and in trouble. 
David, however, in thus speaking, stays not to reason with 
his enemies, but rather addresses himself directly to God, 
and sets his providence as a rampart of defence in opposition 
to all the assaults of those who sought to shake his confi- 
dence, and who caused him much trouble. And certainly, if 
we would fortify ourselves against the scoffing and derision of 
our enemies, the best means which we can employ for this end 
is to overlook them, and to elevate our thoughts to God, and 
in the confidence of his fatherly care over us, to entreat him 
to show, in very deed, that our troubles are not unknown to 
him; yea, that the more he sees the wicked eagerly watch- 
ing every opportunity to accomplish our ruin, he would the 
more speedily come to our aid. This David expresses by 
these various forms of expression—Keep not silence, be not far 
from me, stir up thyself, awake for my judgment. He might 
justly make use of such expressions, seeing he was already 
fully persuaded that God regards the poor and afilicted, and 
marks all the wrongs which are done to them. If, therefore, 
we would frame our requests aright, a clear conviction and 
persuasion of the providence of God must first shine into our 
hearts ; nor is it necessary only that this should precede, in 

VOL. I. 2P 


594 COMMENTARY UPON PSALM XXKV. 


point of order, all our desires ; it must also restrain and govers 
them. 


24. Judge me, O Jehovah my God! according to thy righteous- 
ness ; and let them not rejoice over me. 

25. Let them not say in their heart, Aha! our soul!" let them 
not say, We have swallowed him up. 

26. Let those who rejoice at my hurt be ashamed and confounded 
together ; let those who magnify themselves against me be 
clothed with shame and dishonour. 

27. But let those who favour my righteous cause shout and be 
glad, and let them say continually, Jehovah be magnified, 
who loveth the peace of his servant. 

28. And my tongue shall declare thy righteousness and thy praise 
all the day. 


24, Judge me, O Jehovah my God! David here confirms 
the prayer of the preceding verse that God would be his 
deferider, and would maintain his righteous cause. Having 
been for a time subjected to suffering as one who had been 
forsaken and forgotten, he sets before himself the righteousness 
of God, which forbids that he should altogether abandon the 
upright and the just. It is, therefore, not simply a prayer, 
but a solemn appeal to God, that as he is righteous, he would 
manifest his righteousness in defending his servant in a good 
cause. And certainly, when we seem to be forsaken and 
deprived of all help, there is no remedy which we can em- 
ploy, more effectual to overcome temptation than this con- 
sideration, that the righteousness of God, on which our 
deliverance depends, can never fail. Accordingly, the 
Apostle Paul, in exhorting the faithful to patience, says in 
2 Thess. i.-6, “It is a righteous thing with God to recom- 
pense tribulation to them that trouble you.” Now David 
again appeals to God in this place, and entreats him to 
manifest his righteousness in restraining the insolence of his 


1 C'est, nostre desir: nous avons ce que desirions: ou, nostre ame, 
assavoir s’esjouisse: comme on dit en nostre _— Grande chere.”— 
Note, Fr. marg. “ That is, our desire: we have what we desire: or, our 
soul, that is to say,is glad: as we say in our langu Great cheer.” 
French and Skinner read, ‘‘ Let them not say in their hearts, Aha! our 
desire !” and observe, “‘ that our desire ! means our desire is appears 





PSALM XXXV. THE BOOK OF PSALMS. 595 


enemies: for the more proudly they assail us, God is so 
much the more ready to help us. Besides, by again intro- 
ducing them as speaking, he portrays in a graphic style the 
cruelty of their desires; and by this he means to show, that 
if things should happen according to their wishes, they would 
set no limit to their frowardness. But as the more they vaunt 
themselves, the more they provoke the wrath of God against 
them, David with good reason uses this as an argument to 
encourage his hope, and employs it for his support and con- 
firmation in prayer. 


26. Let those who rejoice at my hurt be ashamed and con- 
founded together. This imprecation has already been ex- 
pounded; and it is only necessary to remark, that there is 
peculiar force in the expression, together, or at once. It shows 
that it was not only one or two, but a great multitude, who 
waged war against him, and that he yielded not to the influ- 
ence of fear, but believed that as soon as God should lift up 
his hand, he could at one stroke easily overthrow them all. 
When it is said that they seek after and rejoice in David's hurt, 
this shows that they were filled with cruel hatred against him, 
And when it is said, that they magnify themselves against him, 


> this isa token of pride. David, therefore, in order to render 


them more hateful in the sight of God, represents them as 
filled with pride and cruelty. And as this form of prayer 
was dictated by the Holy Spirit to David, there can be no 
doubt that the end of all the proud shall be such as is here 
predicted, that they shall turn back overwhelmed with shame 


and disgrace. 


27. Let those who favour my righteous cause rejoice and be 
glad. These two expressions, which are rendered in the 
optative mood, might have been translated with equal pro- 
priety in the future tense; but as this is a matter of little 
consequence, I leave it undecided. David here extols 
the deliverance which he asks of God, and exults in the 
results which should flow from it; namely, that it would be 
an occasion of general rejoicing and good hope to all the 
godly, while at the same time it would stir them up to cele- 


596 COMMENTARY, ETC. PSALM XXXV. 


brate the praises of God. He attributes to all the faithful 
the credit of desiring, that as an innocent man his righteous 
cause should be maintained. David, it is true, was the ob- 
ject of almost universal hatred among the simple and unsus- 
pecting, who were imposed upon by false and unjust reports 
made concerning him; but it is certain that there were among 
the people some who formed a just and impartial estimate of 
things, and who were sorely grieved that a holy man, and 
one too whose benevolence was well known, should have 
been so unjustly and so wrongfully oppressed. And surely 
the common feelings of humanity require, that when we see 
men unjustly oppressed and afflicted, if we are not able to help 
them, we should at least pity them. When David uses the 
language, Jehovah be magnified, his design seems to be tacitly 
to set this in opposition to the pride of the wicked, of which 
he made mention above. As they presume in the pride of 
their hearts, and by their insolent and overbearing conduct, 
to obscure, as far as in them lies, the divine glory, so may 
the faithful, on the other hand, with good reason present the 
prayer that God would shine forth in the majesty of his 
character, and demonstrate in very deed that he exercises 
a special care over all his servants, and takes a peculiar 
pleasure in their peace. Finally, the Psalmist again declares, 
in the conclusion of the psalm, his resolution to celebrate in 
appropriate praises the righteousness of God, by which he 
had been preserved and delivered. 


END OF VOLUME FIRST. 


THE EDINBURGH PRINTING COMPANY, 
12, South St David Street. 


() 











; - / 
oe : 
. = 
ie ‘% x 
a 





i> 


oe Fo 


PP 


> 
meat 


ty: 


=. - 


Car) 
4 
ie 
y* 
y AD 
>’ 
\ 








aa 

















an 
———_ 




















: i 
+7 a: 
- PS oead : 
he REO EES 1M 














4 


MAMONNOT AO AWWN 





“ALVA 
*T° TOA *uosiepuy 
Sarr ecg mame “ay fsutesg JO Joos” ory WO ATS USUttiOy DEL 
sutesg 
z* 0) queues prmseneincresnne ethdoieetoeuenster snes tinnses eecensscarinee Saeaciasbcbaaelitin esos ce ptincaienanistaloscttabede tbe ae A 


®TaT¢ _._L9%0TS 





















































































































































































































































~ * — ~~ 
4 Oe OE HOS e Ee OO oe not ——— oe ~ + o-oo er, 4 al lls 
oe aa et ~ ped ane -~ " _ * 
SS —s = ~~ —— - - aot etind —- ae ootnen t+. —a-9-8-" ¢ 
or a » o> o Salle eee - - patet + ee os - -" o ~~ Yo oe ——_—- 
tee - S492 9.00 Om os ne —_ -_ _ +e eee-24 os ' . ae ee ~ . - ~~ ee ee 
—— re - Se ~e on . ~~. “oe p+ a oom + A ewe -* = mares es 
ee — a “ws - : 7 Sena Am ~- —— ,, ~ = A atin ~ 
Sean armenian “ me ee ae ee _ Ot dae 2 en et _ 2 —S} - ~ he ~* par re ere 
aon <9 a> = rot - Sa IS Ge ee etme BAe Oe eS et ss ohn. en ee 
ed eee ate t A tee ee? —aoet-h ce nh eh ee ater ha ne BAR Al aad eel = ne > RAO On 
re —— Oo aed ah oh pal nh alt nce ache al busenat eee es par <* © oem ee ee 
Ce eed ee ee er — ~- —*-2-« rs ~ +90. ae * ee en + teat a OD Bob eo)» gor- t= 8-0 
aant-o-2 any = ne ener ea eo ta o-tuon br - bab t Hite eee 
I eee nm ne te ee ee Se ee See 1 es eee » - ar rr Se 
ee ~ a _ ~ntm & PPP ET OE OY SO ne an pew ~~ — a ran ae 
Sa - —— ae. oo NA etn EOE beh tne ch OO HOM ee ee —s —— nh be mth ae Reet eit th ent ee Renn 
a coos ~~ bags Se + 8 teete e _ ie ete -_ - “ al = ee + tae ee Ne od 
ao) — to ee ee eee er ees ee Seer * . as _" > —_— 
ew 8-4 PO -14 «+e - ~ — + ea > oe og - > 8-0-9 4-9 b-— - ps equer —* - A > dae ha RO li td ~ 
-- PILL EE LAD De tr SPO OO a a a PO pA ah 8-4. - * Ne Ee ear ae 
AE I Se 8 0 eet eek ee ae Oe aet--8- 9 benno ee eee POR the B80) ete the tn s a | ere eepnett oF 
an et ee OR ah AE RS ge hte Ga 2-5-0} 0-80-23 oe + \-++ ooo —— deh — tt A a ae tems Ne 6 ak 6S be ere OPA OD 
wepernew + er 0% A eee Oh PP A Ee OE OO +e ~+ = + —— et es-ES ee obo oo 
> te i eos A ee a en te Pan ale nin a nt | he-L Eo Be Oe vow SN ene aye d Sema -O. 
ew ~ ee ———~ Pyare ea eed el OT 8 tater) oat bo! - > aee toes s—momnk, ee Pee a ee Pn 
Pe a aS -A PO PO Pa PEL pap te a re a0 AS Gage) ht 2 Aneta o-oo eae Tl TO OE OD 
— ie ee 0 1D beer er ee SE bale nn May OLB tA a ee eee hel AR eee et AOD Ne hy OP TO ne 
| A Lie OF OOS AS SOOM SS OP OPPO SE Era rarer me" A el Prat oo Seer Pn SO oes ome = aoe 
gurteeee le aera td aerweorrwmnre a aT SOE el A ae OS aa a> inne ih Atom cain — re —“¥ AD a o-o-2> 
ey ne ee ta ware te Oe I eae oars Oe OO tee 2 ee ee rs PO At PE ee TE TE er ee ppd med 
> a OBA. $ret ene Ls ee ee Ohh tp ge RE Be eae ee ee rary ee ees o> and 
AA we at Etre OO 6 0-66-40 o> ae eS re a re ee eee - at, ont etn At gm Pa NT ee ee eo rn aerr er ereneanen ae. 6e-s 0-2 aor t e825 -2e 
eG a te Mt Me teh ap Mp ee mcr «tga AO be ANE Rete a en ln hae OGG tated Ae RAIe Ad ee ee NS ~ Aa eee aan Attend 
PPA PO eT NE Ne ype india Py eertet- Awe Ree al ead Sa bbe Gxt * ee NN Ne ee Oe errr eee re eS 
anaes SSA OOO OI LADD LIAL AION, | LORS Ee eerie A Ratt tte AND: CAAA Lt alt HAA IH ~ 
anon CPi OBO Lee OAR LS ES ear e- OL o-% See eer een - tg ON Eee error Pa ne NT re eer 
weer wannpiny Re a a Ne ete ioe AP ET nen See ae ne anssahehencbateblna ae a-tnbaea beh ©-aeey ote tee © PADS LOGS EP ALLEL TSS 50-5 + ketene 
ee eee — eee OE TOE WOE OS eerinnena ne raaa a eS ne naar ree ~ NN are 
— ewer en. ¢- Sa RS Oe ManGnapagnt <2 the teen aa ‘on. Deeettenes ae re eS 
Ae er agen anegnte — — ee SY ene 4 A A he — ok eR Oe Fa Ee a hae Renate en parent 4 bento" 
o me ~ Ce ol an reer neon ee te Om a —" Pe en onde pana te eee 2 te) ~ Farrer ReO-24 
SN Se ee - Ne > ean Ah 9 et Oo) OP DOG! # no ae eae Rel - Send AAO Ae aie Ee SM OOO Le et te nthe ~ nent nl 
POE ON et eg Pap octet eh a ad pth eae aetna anh OR 2 Seen GO ed CL ALAA LLLP LN SAS ON are ores So ete nant eathnen tnt) atn eet eae haimpeeate- Bat a oA echeGn SS 
tn A te COE A eee 0 Ot AA, Ap enter TF nt) en Ona ae OPP eG F-8 te Daet~ Ande O->-D ae ee en nae 902-0. 9 OOH O! ane o Aten anata tm 
tO Be OO OO ee . a bed el Wa ia 4-ers-a eke * ——> Se - emn 
1 PO>-+-4-6O-O4 Lt ee Re RR oy tl eo Rg Ae HOE A ONE Oe ON b-A-mnt- hd, Bn 2 ~ Ne Faget t—)- 5-92-81 tn 9 8 ee + 4-o2.4- 4-20 #4 4- ph tet be oh OO fopeqeger |. oe: far 
— ~ oe 5 > Pre Ot 0-0-0.0 0-tamd. - 4-0 oe v- cy c he 000. ‘ i+ ee ee Ot A 6 B84 - (OOOO OF err al ee et alt bi eneeriee 
. ares a Aa tee * ee a TE ONE AT Oe A _ “ne 
bets =~ we Stent PP EAE SE TE Ee Te Oe ecamraaperaberol Pat ee one ber . “ a~ ~ 
> Pte oe hath ony 1 + ~ ro eae ae et A Pete Beenie BAB 92) <8 Oe a ee 2 ee eal Ta e-Bay aerate ae 
Sao eenoee aoe ane a 5 —- ih EA OE Oe Bal 8D pm F-8-F-A-O OO PO enters OA te Oe F SB ee ee ” ON ee ee 
a. - eer ~e OPO COPD On SOO ROM Oe -. SoS OF a 8 Bee er OE POOR Rete P-OH® O08 pvt - + ate onto tate Bane 
teeth et ef £- SOs 2-oereer , oe tment 0 -0- Gee a-O=1-bee— RT Sad ne NE ee ang GAS, | Roh a ah ne ee am ete . 
. ~ See Arg ne~ ont a ne eed + PnP chet a0 | AS 0 OO Bat Oot Oe ont 
ane — OES EO OOOOOO 6 Qa Er Gy ete tee Ree Rat pa) aes PNP re nt —_ =) . ee eae + Se ee t= Bat palace 
ae + OO roe tee % Se tie 08-8 be @ 8a oOt-0-400: a eel -s ete | terete ed eee 
Son 94-9 +o te ara eta a A Te een “SG *- 9 ere ee - eenen ead O90 - 1-00 -  e 
“0 aan OP LOE : aoa ee Pt A Pon i rapeeun-a- a ~ 
ee er > ~ eh OR Frere bh ett et BA A et SD — a4 RITA Oe 
Ra Ps b= a eOre OS bat > ab PED ale Gel dots att. Aa, “~ eh hh aaltepet lint ries soer 
O-2-2-e a“ Pa ~~ 0 












































































































































































































































































































































