1. After God had carried us safe to New-England, and wee had builded our houses, provided necessaries for our liveli-hood, rear’d convenient places for Gods worship, and setled the Civill Government: One of the next things we longed for, and looked after was to advance Learning and perpetuate it to Posterity; dreading to leave an illiterate Ministery to the Churches, when our present Ministers shall lie in the Dust. And as wee were thinking and consulting how to effect this great Work; it pleased God to stir up the heart of one Mr. Harvard (a godly Gentleman, and a lover of Learning, there living amongst us) to give the one halfe of his Estate (it being in all about 1700. 1.) towards the erecting of a Colledge, and all his Library: after him another gave 300. |. others after them cast in more, and the publique hand of the State added the rest: the Colledge was, by common consent, appointed to be at Cambridge, (a place very pleasant and accommodate) and is called (according to the name of the first founder) Harvard Colledge.

[...]

Over the Colledge is master Dunster placed, as President, a learned conscionable and industrious man, who hath so trained up, his Pupills in the tongues and Arts,'and so seasoned them with the principles of Divinity and Christianity,

[...]

Over the Colledge are twelve Overseers chosen by the generall Court, six of them are of the Magistrates, the other six of the Ministers, who are to promote the best good of it, and (having a power of influence into all persons in it) are to see that every one be diligent and proficient in his proper place.

2. Rules, and Precepts that are observed in the Colledge. 1. When any Schollar is able to understand Tully,? or such like classical Latine Author extempore, and make and speake true Latine in Verse and Prose, suo ut aiunt Marte; 3 And decline perfectly the Para- digm’s of Nounes and Verbes in the Greek tongue: Let him then and not before be capable of admission into the Colledge. 2. Let every Student be plainly instructed, and earnestly pressed to consider well, the maine end of his life and studies is, to know God and Iesus Christ which is eternall life, Joh. 17. 3. and therefore to lay Christ in the bottome, as the only foundation of all sound knowledge and Learning. | And seeing the Lord only giveth wisedome, Let every one seriously set himselfe by prayer in secret to seeke it of him Prov 2, 3. 3. Every one shall so exercise himselfe in reading the Scriptures twice a day, that he shall be ready to give such an account of his pro- ficiency therein, both in Theoretticall observations of the Language, and Logick, and in Practicall and spirituall truths, as his Tutor shall require, according to his ability; seeing the entrance of the word giveth light, it giveth understanding to the simple, Psalm. 119. 130. 4. That they eshewing all profanation of Gods Name, Attributes, Word, Ordinances and times of Worship, doe studie with good con- science, carefully to retaine God, and the love of his truth in their mindes, else let them know, that (notwithstanding their Learning) God may give them up ?o strong delusions, and in the end to a reprobate minde, 2 Thes. 2. 11, 12. Rom. 1. 28. 5. That they studiously redeeme the time; observe the generall houres appointed for all the Students, and the speciall houres for their owne Classes: and then diligently attend the Lectures, without any disturbance by word or gesture. And if in anything they doubt, they shall enquire, as of their fellowes, so, (in case of Non satisfaction) mod- estly of their Tutors. 6. None shall under any pretence whatsoever, frequent the company and society of such men as lead an unfit, and dissolute life. Nor shall any without his Tutors leave, or (in his absence) the call of Parents or Guardians, goe abroad to other Townes. 7. Every Schollar shall be present in his Tutors chamber at the 7th. houre in the morning, immediately after the sound of the Bell, at his opening the Scripture and prayer, so also at the 5th. houre at night, and then give account of his owne private reading, as aforesaid in Particular the third, and constantly attend Lectures in the Hall at the houres appointed? But if any (without necessary impediment) shall absent himself from prayer or Lectures, he shall bee lyable to Admoni- tion, if he offend above once a weeke. 8. If any Schollar shall be found to transgresse any of the Lawes of God, or the Schoole, after twice Admonition, he shall be lyable, if not adultus, to correction, if adultus, his name shall be given up to the Overseers of the Colledge, that he may bee admonished at the publick monethly Act.

3. The times and order of their Studies, unlesse experience shall shew cause to alter. The second and third day of the weeke, read Lectures, as followeth. To the first yeare at 8th. of the clock in the morning Logick, the first three quarters, Physicks the last quarter. To the second yeare, at the gth. houre, Ethicks and Politicks, at con- venient distances of time. To the third yeare at the roth. Arithmetick and Geometry, the three first quarters, Astronomy the last. Afternoone. The first yeare disputes at the second houre. The 2d. yeare at the 3d. houre. The 3d. yeare at the 4th. every one in his Art. The 4th. day reads Greeke. To the first yeare the Etymologie and Syntax at the eighth houre. To the ead. at the gth. houre, Prosodia and Dialects. Afternoone. The first yeare at 2d. houre practice the precepts of Grammar in such Authors as have variety of words. The 2d. yeare at 3d. houre practice in Poésy, ⟨with⟩ Nonnus, Duport,* or the like. The gd. yeare perfect their Theory before noone, and exercise Style, Composition, Imitation, Epitome, both in Prose and Verse, afternoone. The fift{h| day reads Hebrew, and the Easterne Tongues. Grammar to the first yeare houre the 8th. To the 2d. Chaldee ⟨1.e. Aramaic⟩ at the gth. houre. To the 3d. Syriack at the roth. houre. Afternoone. | The first yeare practice in the Bible at the ad. houre. The ad. in Ezra and Dan⟨i⟩el at the 3d. houre. The 3d. at the 4th. houre in Trostius > New Testament. The 6th. day reads Rhetorick to all at the 8th houre. Declamations at the gth. So ordered that every Scholler may de- claime once a moneth. The rest of the day vacat Rhetoricis studiis.© The 7th. day reads Divinity Catecheticall at the 8th. houre, Common places at the gth. houre. Afternoone. The first houre reads history in the Winter, The nature of plants in the Summer The summe of every Lecture shall be examined, before the new Lecture be read. Every Schollar, that on proofe is found able to read the Originalls of the Old and New Testament into the Latine tongue, and to resolve them Logically; withall being of godly life and conversation; And at any publick Act hath the Approbation of the Overseers and Master ~ of the Colledge, is fit to be dignified with his first Degree. Every Schollar that giveth up in writing a System, or Synopsis, or summe of Logick, Naturall and Morall Phylosophy, Arithmetick, Geometry and Astronomy: and is ready to defend his Theses or positions: withall skilled in the Originalls as abovesaid: and of godly life & conversa- tion: and so approved by the Overseers and Master of the Colledge, at any publique Act, is fit to be dignified with his 2d. Degree.