Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 






\^ l<Mt||||ll|||llUIMi)i::|' 




3 fil 



iiiHiiniiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiimnimini 



imiiiiimiiiiiimiiHiiinnmnti 



TllmitiUIIMItltlllllllllllHIIIIIItillllllllllllllllllltlllltllllllllllllt^llllllllilllllllllNllllllllli: 



^lUlilillUllUIUHUIIIIilUJiUUiliiUJIIIIUIilillllllllllllllMilUIIIUimilUlllilillillllU: 



THE GIFT OF 



— * 



nUi:ikiiik¥iUti.lbini(ki.kAliUh^Vi«i^VkkinUiiAllViiiWikmiiillkniyiihkiiitJlfinifilfilil1i^ 



I 



311 



■I 




I 
I 



:*;i:^- 






►,gc*3j(..3j(..$v.5j(. 



MEMOIR 



OP 



JAMES PETIGRU BOYCE, D.D., LLD. 



LATE PRESIDENT OF 



THE SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 



I 

I LOUISVILLE, KY. 

i 



BY / 

JOHN AT BROADUS 




Neto gorft 

A. C. ARMSTRONG AND SON 

LOUISVILLE, KY. 

BAPTIST BOOK CONCEKN 
Third and Jefferson St. 

1893 



Copyright, 189S, 
Bt John A. Bkoadus. 



John Wilson and Son, Cambkidge. 









DC 



% 
1 



TO 



MRS. BOYCE AND HER DAUGHTERS, 

iriTH MANY PRECIOUS MEMORIES IN COMMON, 
AND HEARTY PERSONAL FRIENDSHIP. 

J. A. B. 



PREFACE. 



This Memoir has been prepared by request of .th6 
family, and through strong impulses of personal affec- 
tion ; for we were of the same age, and had worked 
side by side for thirty years. But in depicting a' char- 
acter so elevated and sincere, one feels obliged to 
restrain the natural tendency to eulogium. 

I have especially tried to represent the environment 
and development of Dr. Boyce's early life in Ciiarles- 
tony at Brown University, and at Princeton Theological 
Seminary, and to bring out his labors as editor in 
Charleston, pastor in Columbia, and professor in Fur- 
man University. The part which he took in the war, 
and in South Carolina politics, is not overlooked. 

As his recognized life-work was the foundation and 
establishment of the Southern Baptist Theological 
Seminary, a biography of him could hardly fail to 
comprise a history of that institution. But this is for 
the most part thrown into distinct chapters, which 
some readers can pass over if they like. For the his- 
torical sketch of the institution I have carefuUv used 
printed and manuscript records, besides recollections 
which go back almost to the beginning of the move- 
ment. If any persons interested in theological educa- 



Vlll PREFACE. 

tion wish really to understand the peculiar plan and 
operations of this Seminary, they will find a hrief 
chapter of explanation. 

The account of Dr. Boyce's ancestry and early life 
is most of all indebted to Dr. H. A. Tupper, who was 
his friend from boyhood and married his sister, and 
who has written copious memoranda and furnished a 
long series of letters, carefully arranged, from which 
I drew many facts and impressions, besides the 
extracts given. Valuable assistance was also aflforded 
by Dr. Boyce's sister, Mrs. Burckmyer, and by William 
G. Whildeu, Esq., Judge B. C. Pressley, and numerous 
other friends, to whom indebtedness will be found 
acknowledged at one point or another. The Misses 
Boyce have carefully selected from their father's let- 
ter-books all such as they thought likely to be helpful, 
and have written notes of his later journeys which 
they shared, and also personal recollections of his 
home life and traits of character, which are freely 
used in the closing chapters. I heartily thank many 
former students and others who have furnished 

material for this labor of love. 

J. A. B. 

Louisville, Ky., 
April 15, 1893. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

BIRTH AND ANCESTRY. 



The Scotch-Irish.— The Boyce Name and Family.— The Grandfather's 
Services and Adventures during the Revolutionary War. — The 
Father, Ker Boyce, settles in Charleston as a Cotton-Factor. — 
Weathering a Financial Storm.— James Boyce's Mother. — Her 
Conversion, during a Sermon by Basil Manly, Sr. 

Pages 1-9. 



CHAPTER II. 

THE CITY OF CHARLESTON. 

Beautiful Bay, Islands, and Rivers. — The Rich Planters of ''Sea 
Island " Cotton. — The Carolina Aristocracy. — Story of Dr. Jeter. 
— Population o£ Charleston at Different Periods. Pages 10-13. 



CHAPTER III. 

CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 

The Namesake, James L. Petigru. — The "Little Guardsman*' at 
Church. — Sketch of the Pastor, Basil Manly, Sr. — James's Early 
Fondness for Books. — His Archery Club and Debating Society. — 
His Mother's Early Death. — The Lesson she once gave him in 
Truthfulness. — His Boyish Care of the Younger Children, and 
how they regarded him. — Six Months in a Dry-Goods Store. — 



CONTENTS. 

Reading the Works of Gilmore Simms. — At Professor Bailey's 
School, and at the High School with Dr. Bruus. — Timrod and 
Hayne. — H. H. Tucker his Sunday-School Teacher, and after- 
wards Judge Piessiey. — Hearing Dr. Thornwell. — At the 
Charleston College under Dr. Brantly. — Tribute of his Fellow- 
Student, F. T. Miles. — Sketch of Dr. Brantly, the Pastor and 
President. — Business and Political Activity of Mr. Ker Boyce. 

Pages 14-32. 



CHAPTER IV. 

AT BROWN UNIVERSITY. 

Early Interest of South Carolina Baptists in Brown University. — Sketch 
of President Wayland, whom James Boyce resembled in Impor- 
tant Respects. — Dr. Wayland's Controversy with Dr. R. Fuller on 
Slavery. — Professors Caswell, Gammell, Lincoln, and J. R. Boise. 
— Various Fellow-Students who became famous. — Visit of Adoni- 
ram Judson. — Letters of Boyce to H. A. Tupper. — Tributes to 
him by J. R. Boise and J. H. Luther. — His Conversion, through 
the Influence of Fellow-Students at Brown, and the Preaching of 
Dr. R. Fuller in Charleston. — His Zeal on returning to College, 
and Important Revival there. — His Studies. — Lively Letter to a 
Charleston Lady. — Continued Religious Labors. — Letters. — 
Determination to become a Minister. — Disappointment of his 
Father and some others. — Graduated and licensed to preach. 

Pages 33-54. 



CHAPTER V. 

MARRIAGE AND EDITORIAL WORK. 

How he became acquainted at Washington, Ga. — The Ficklen Family. 
— The Village, its Schools and Society. — Quickly enamoured, and 
long persevering. — How prevented from studying Theology at 
Hamilton. — Marriage. — Editor of **The Southern Baptist" in 
Charleston. — Characteristics and Success in that Capacity. — 
Much in Company with Dr. A. M. Poindexter. 

Pages 55-66. 



CONTENTS. XI 



CHAPTER VI. 



AT PRINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY, 1849-1851. 

Archibald Alexander and his Famous Sons, James and Addison. — Dr. 
Charles Hodge. — Fellow-Students, Presbyterian and Baptist. — 
Very laborious, his Wife aiding by copying Notes. — Preaching often 
at the Penn*s Neck Baptist Church, near Princeton. — Tlie Karlieht 
Sermon that remains. — A Vacation with the Ficklens in Virginia, 
preaching every Sunday. — Letters to Mr. Tupper, now his Brother- 
in-law. — Plans on leaving Princeton • . . Pages 67-83. 



CHAPTER VII. 

PASTOR AT COLUMBIA, S. C, 1851-1855. 

The City, its Sun^oundings and Beautiful Homes. — Capitol, South 
Carolina College, Presbyterian Theological Seminary. — The Baptist 
Church in Columbia, and his Ministerial Labors. — Getting a 
Strong Hold upon the Colored People. — Setting up a Home. — His 
Father's Death there. — Closing Estimates of Mr. Ker Boyce. — 
The Young Minister left as Active Executor. — At the Southern 
Baptist Convention in 1855 Pages 84-99. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

PROFESSOR OP THEOLOGY IN FURMAN UNIVERSITY. 

History of the Furman Institution from 1827, and its Removal to Green- 
ville in 1851, as Furman University. — Boyce elected to its 
Theological Department in 1855. — Sketches of President Furman 
and Professors Judson, Edwards, and others. — Boyce's Anxiety to 
have another Theological Professor. — His Faithful Labors. — 
Sermon on the Death of Senator A. P. Butler . Pages 100-110. 



Xll CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER IX. 

FOUNDATION OP THE SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL 

SEMINABY. 

Almost every Baptist College began with a Theological Department — 
Young Basil Manly and othera going to Newton, in Massachusetts. 

— Separation of Northern and Southern Baptists, in 1845. — Idea 
of a Common Theological School for all Southern fiiapti^ts. — Various 
Consultations, at Augusta 1845, Nashville and Charleston 1849, in 
Virginia 1854 ; in Educational Conventions, at Montgomery 1855, 
Augusta 1856. — James P. Boyce's Address in 1856 at Furman 
University on "Three Changes in Theological Institutions." — 
Copious Extracts from this Epoch-Making Address. — His Views 
compared with those of President Wayland, Three Years before, 
in " The Apostolic Ministry." — Proposition of the South Carolina 
Baptists accepted by an Educational Convention in Louisville, 1857. 

— Professor Boyce at work as Agent in South Carolina. — Final 
Convention at Greenville, 1858, organizing the Seminary. — 
Opening delayed a Year Pages 111-154. 



CHAPTER X. 

THE seminary's PLAN OF INSTRUCTION. 

Its Aim to give Theological Instruction to Men in every Grade of 
General Education. — How could these work together ? — System of 
Independent "Schools," like the University of Virginia. — Every 
Man's Studies completely elective. — List of the Seminary's Schools, 
or Departments. — Great Stress laid upon the Study of the English 
Scriptures. — Remarkable Experiences in that Direction. — How the 
Plan has worked, with even Unexpected Good Results. — Peculiar- 
ities as to Graduation. — New Degrees recently introduced, and 
New Titles. — Wide Range of Special Studies. 

Paoes 155-165. 



CONTENTS/ XUi 

CHAPTER XL 

THE SEMINART'S THREE FIRST SESSIONS, 1859-1862. 

The Town of Greenville and its Environs. — The Four Professors. — 
Some of the First Students. — Opening full of Encouragement. — 
Dr. Boyce's Country Pastorate. — His Kindness to the Students. 
— Dedicating the New Church at Columbia. — Second Session dis- 
turbed by the Great Political Excitement. — Visiting Fort Sumter 
after its Capture by South Carolina Troops. — Third Session greatly 
hindered by the War. — Dr. Boyce's Correct Forecast as to Duration 
of the War. — His Diligence in Study amid so many Interruptions. 

Pages 166>182. 



CHAPTER XIL 

DR. BOTCE^S PART IK THE WAR. 

Opposed to Secession, but went with his State. — Fearing a Long and 
Bloody War. — Prospect of Heavy Financial Losses. — Chaplain in 
Confederate Army. — Member of the South Carolina Legislature. — 
Important Bill and Speech as to helping the Confederate Finances. 
— Extracts from the Speech. — Aide-de-Camp to the Governor. — 
His House at Greenville plundered by Union Soldiers. 

Pages 183-197. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

FIRST SIX TEARS AT GREENVILLE AFTER THE WAR, 

1865-1871. 

The Seminary reopened, with very Few Students, and Ruined Finances.— 
Working for the Future. — Dr. Boyce's Personal Losses and Embar- 
rassments, and Great Exertions to collect Support for the Seminary. 

— Salaries once a Whole Year in Arrears, amid the High Prices. 

— Southern Interest in Higher Education, and Real Generosity of 
many. — Boyce refusing Offers of Lai^ Salary. — Number of Stu- 



XIV CONTENTS. 

dents slowly increasing. — Finances improyiug, and (1869) a Fifth 
Professor appointed, C. H. Toy. — Dr. Boyce's Sermon at ' the 
Funeral of Dr. Basil Manly, Sr. — Extracts. — Professor B. Manly, 
Jr., goes to be President of Georgetown College, Ey. 

Pages 198-217. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

SEBIES OF EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 

What had become of the Original Subscribed Endowment. — Necessity 
for Removal slowly recognized. — Various Suggestions and Proposi- 
tions, from 1869 onward. — Offer to make Boyce President of Brown 
University. — Decision in 1872 to remove the Seminary to Louis- 
ville—Professor W. H. Whitsitt elected in 1872.— Dr. Boyce 
yields the Chair of Systematic Theology to Dr. Williams. — Elected 
President of the Southern Baptist Convention, 1872-1879. — 
Removes his Family to Louisville, 1872. — Letters to J. O. B. 
Dargan and Mrs. Butler. — Grave Difficulties encountered at 
Louisville, and Opposition of some Excellent Men. — Financial 
Collapse of 1873. — Boyce's Great Speech before a Meeting in Louis- 
ville, and another before the Southern Baptist Convention in 1873. 
— Remarkable Contributions in Texas, and at the Baptist Anniver- 
saries in Washington City. — Tour of Kentucky. — Long Series of 
Efforts to secure Endowment in Kentucky and elsewhere. — Preach- 
ing much in Louisville. — Work of the Seminary at Greenville. — 
Failing Health of Dr. Williams, and his Death. — Sketch, and 
Tribute by Dr. Curry. — Removal of the Seminary to Louisville in 
1877 Pages 218-250. 



CHAPTER XV. 

TEN BUST TEARS IN THE SEMINART AT LOUISVILLE, 

1877-1887. 

Extracts from Dr. Boyce's Opening Lecture on History of the Seminary. 
— Professors cordially received in Louisville. — Dr. Boyce again 
teaching Theology. — Number of Students much increased. — 
Resignation of Dr. Toy (1879), and Return of Dr. Manly. — Dr. 



CONTENTS. XV 

Boyce's Work as a Teacher. — His Method of Instniction in The- 
ology. — His Ijove of Turrettin, and Class in ** Latin Theology." — 
His Teaching in Church Government, Pastoral Duties, and Parlia- 
mentary Practice. — His New Studies in Various Directions. — 
Seminary's Financial Condition unsatisfactory, and Boyce's Lahors 
and Journeys. — The Institution saved by a Single Gift, in Answer 
to Prayer, with Further Gifts in Louisville and New York. — More 
Students. — Assistant- Professor G. W. Riggan. — Need of Ground 
and Buildings. — New York Hall.—- Death of Riggatk— Assistant- 
Professors J. R. Sampey and A. T. Robertson. — Lettew of Boyce 
to his Sister and others, to M. T. Yates and other Missionaries. 

Paoes 251-30^. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

PUBLISHED AND UNPUBLISHED WRITINGS. 

Brief Catechism of Bible Doctrine. — Abstract of Theology! — History 
of its Production. — Adapted to his Method of Class Instruction, 
but very useful also to Working Preachers. — Highly Favorable 
Notices in the " Standard " and the "Independent." — Mention 
of Various Sermons, Lectures, and Essays, which ought to be 
published Pages 304-313. 



CHAPTER XVIL 

DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 

Occasional Attacks since 1871. — Overwork. — Co- Professor F. H. 
Kerfoot in 1887. — Various Letters, one to William E. Dodge, of 
New York. — Journey with Family to California and Alaska. — 
Notes of Miss Boyce. — Assault on Dr. Manly, impairing his 
Health. — Dr. Boyce once more presiding in Southern Baptist 
Convention, 1888. — Voyage with Family to Europe. — Letters. — 
Miss Boyce's Notes of their Travels in England and Scotland. — 
Very ill in London. — Death of two Sisters. — Jjctters. — Sojourn 
in Paris, with Failing Strength. — Death at Pau, in the South of 
France, Dec. 28, 1888. — Funeral from Broadway Church, Louis- 
ville. — Memorial Meetings Pages 314-344. 



XVI CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XVni. 

GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 

Yarioas Qualities stated, with Numerous Extracts from Memorial and 
Funeral Addresses, from Letters of Students and other Friends, and 
from Miss Boyce's Notes Fagies 345-371 



MEMOIR 



OF 



JAMES PETIGRU BOYCE. 



CHAPTER I. 

BIRTH AND ANCESTRY. 

JAMES PETIGRU BOYCE was bom in Charleston, 
South Carolina, January 11, 1827. His father, Ker 
Boyce, had removed ten years before from Newberry Dis- 
trict.^ This large district, or county, lies in the fine 
central region of South Carolina, which is rolling and 
healthful, and near enough to navigable streams to have 
been earlier developed than the upper portions of the State, 
towards the Blue Ridge. An enthusiastic old citizen is 
reported to have said: ^' South Carolina is the garden spot 
of the world, and Kewberry District is the garden spot of 
South Carolina." 

While the early settlers of South Carolina were chiefly 
English, there were two other considerable elements, 
which have always been highly influential in the business, 
politics, and society of the State, — the Huguenots and 
the Scotch-Irish. These last are a people who have made 

* The term "district" was always used in South Carolina until the 
Reconstruction legislation of 1866 changed it to "county." The dis- 
tricts near the coast were subdivided into parishes, some of which had 
separate representation in the State Legislature. 

1 



^ MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

themselves felt in all parts of the world. They went from 
Scotland centuries ago to the adjacent portions of Ireland, 
and have continued to occupy all the northeastern part of 
that island, having Belfast and Londonderry as their chief 
cities, and keeping themselves mainlj' distinct from the 
properly Irish population. They followed the example 
of their kinsmen in Scotland in becoming Protestant and 
Presbyterian, and they now constitute an important factor 
in the possibilities and the difficulties of Home Kule in 
Ireland. 

The father of Ker Boyce was John Boyce, who was 
born in Ireland. The family name is still common in 
northeastern Ireland and in various parts of the United 
States.^ John Boyce removed to the British colonies of 

^ Prof. James R. Boise, forrflerly of Brown University, and now 
Emeritus Professor in the Divinity School of Chicago University, in a 
letter of Februarj^ 1889 (after James P. Boyce 's death), from which 
we shall hereafter quote further, says, "I had correspondence with him 
a few years ago respecting the various forms of our name ; and the result 
may be interesting to some of his relatives and numerous friends. By 
the aid of encyclopaedias and biographical dictionaries we arrived at 
the following list, showing that the name is found in Greek, Latin, 
German, Italian, French, and English ; and it is quite likely that other 
forms might be found : Bo7i06s, BofiOSos, Boethius, Boetius, Boethe, 
Boecius, Boece, Boecio, Boezio, Bois, Boice, Boyce, Boyse, Boise, Boies, 
Boyes, Boys, Boyis, Boiss, Boeis." There is some reason to l>elieve 
that all were primarily of Huguenot origin, their ancestors having 
emigrated, when banished from France, to the north of Ireland, where 
they found Protestant sympathy. It may be worth while to mention 
that about 1786 Gilbert Boyce is spoken of as an English Baptist 
minister, and that a collection of hymns published in England in 1801 
contained twenty-one hymns by Samuel Boyse (Diet. Hymn., p. 167). 
Dr. Bubert Boyce, author of an important medical work, is now a 
medical professor in University College, London. We learn further, 
through the researches of Samuel Wilson, of Richmond, that persons 
named Boyce were early prominent in Virginia. Chyna (Cheney) Boyse 
came over in 1617, and was of the Assembly of Burgesses in 1629; 
John Boys was of that body in 1619, both representing Charles City 
county. Several others appear among the immigrants of that century. 



BIRTH AND ANCESTRY. 3 

North America in 1765. In 1777 he married Elizabeth 
Miller, daughter of David Miller, of Rutherford, North 
Carolina, and shortly after settled in Newberry District, 
about fifteen miles north of the town of Newberry, in a 
section which has for many years been^called Mollohon. 
He thus began his married life in the midst of the Kevo- 
lution. The battle of Fort Moultrie had been fought 
in June, 1776. On the 15th of January, 1778, the city 
of Charleston was set on fire, — according to the popular 
supposition by ** partisans of the British," — and lost two 
hundred and thirty-two houses, valued at half a million of 
pounds sterling. In the spring of this year the Schophel- 
ites, followers of Colonel Schophel, a militia colonel whom 
Moultrie called **an illiterate, stupid, noisy blockhead," 
organized in South Carolina and moved across the Savan- 
nah River to form a junction with the British troops in 
St. Augustine, Florida. It was expected that these troops 
would invade South Carolina, and the military prowess of 
the Carolinians was greatly aroused. Alexander Boyce, a 
brother of John not otherwise known to us,^ obtained a 
commission as captain; and as a private in his brother's 
company, John had his first military experience. At the 
sfege of Savannah, Captain Alexander Boyce, on the 9th 
of November, 1779, in a gallant attempt to carry the 
British line, fell at the head of his company. John Boyce 
afterwards joined a company commanded by Captain (sub- 
sequently Colonel) Dugan, and was in the battles of Black- 
stocks, King's Mountain, Cowpens, and Eutaw. After one 
of these battles he returned home for a brief visit, but 
had scarcely seated himself to eat when he was startled 

^ Nor do we know what kin to John and Alexander was James 
Boyce, who also came from Ireland to North Carolina before the Revo- 
lution, settling near Charlotte. He was an eminently religious man, 
and highly respected. His grandson is Rev. Ebenezer Erskine Boyce, 
D.D., of Gaatonia, N. C, and the latter's son is Rev. James Boyce, of 
Louisville, Ey., minister of the Associate Reformed Church. 



4 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

by the approach of horses. Springing to the door, he 
found himself confronted by a party of Tories, headed 
by the celebrated partisan William Cunningham, and an- 
other man equally dreaded, named McCombs. Hurling 
his hat into the^ faces of the horses, which made them 
open right and left, he rushed through the opening to- 
wards the woods, not reaching them till he had lost three 
fingers from his uplifted arm, by a furious blow of Cun- 
ningham's sabre. When the Tories withdrew, he hurried 
to the house, that his hand might be bound up; then joined 
his company, and before night was in pursuit of the mur- 
derous marauders. On the Enoree River, near the mouth 
of Duncan's Creek, they captured eleven or twelve of the 
party, and among them McCombs. ^^ These were con- 
veyed to the place where the Charleston road crosses the 
old Ninety-Six road (now Whitmire's), and there a * short 
shrift,' a strong rope and a stooping hickory, applied 
speedy justice to them all. A common grave, at the root 
of the tree, is their resting-place for all time. 

" On another occasion Mr. John Boyce was captu^^ed, 
and tied in his own bam, while a bed-cord was sought-for 
to hang him ; his negro man (long afterwards known as 
Old Sandy), being hid in the straw, while the captors were 
absent on their fell purpose arose to the rescue, untied 
his master, and both made good their escape. . . . These 
are a few of the hairbreadth escapes which tried the men 
of that dark and bloody period, when home, sweet home, 
could not be enjoyed for a moment without danger, and 
when wife and children had to be left to the tender mercies 
of the bloody, thundering Tories." The late John Bel- 
ton O'Neall, Chief-Justice of South Carolina, from whose 
"Annals of Newberry " the above details are taken, adds: 
** John Boyce lived long after the war, enjoying the rich 
blessings of the glorious liberty for which he had perilled 
so much. He lost his wife in 1797, and died in 1806, 
leaving seven sons and a daughter, Robert, John, David, 



BIRTH AND ANCESTRY. 



» 



Alexander, Ker, James, Andrew, and Mary," It will be 
noticed that several of these sons bore familiar Scottish 
names. It is a family tradition that he and all the seven 
sons were noted for their wit, and fond of practical jokes ; 
and many anecdotes are preserved which show how the old 
gentleman, at the age of seventy-five and eighty, still •en- 
joyed getting the best of 'Hhe boys." We shall find this 
characteristic fully inherited by Ker Boyce and by his son 
James. 

Judge O'Neall says that John Boyce was "a well-in- 
formed, though not a well-educated, man, who had read 
much, and exercised a just and wholesome influence in the 
section where he lived. He was a Presbyterian and an 
elder in McClintock's church. Gilder's Creek, and his re- 
mains rest in the graveyard of that church." His sons 
all led industrious and prosperous lives, making them- 
selves favorably known in Newberry, Laurens, Union, and 
elsewhere, and no doubt permanently influenced by the 
^'Let us worship God," heard night and morning in the 
home of their youth. A son of Robert was Hon. William 
W. Boyce, a distinguished member of the United States 
Congress and of the Confederate Congress, and a prominent 
-lawyer, who spent his last years in Washington city in 
the practice of his profession, and died in 1889. 

Beyond the general good influence of the home and the 
church, we know nothing as to the early life of Ker Boyce, 
born April 8, 1787, save that he was mirthful and mis- 
chievous, so that some imagined he would not succeed 
well in business, but found themselves very much mis- 
taken. His educational advantages were limited, but 
he showed a quick and bright intelligence. After some 
experience as clerk in a store, he established himself as a 
merchant in the town of Newberry, and steadily prospered. 
In 1812 the Legislature elected him to be tax-collector 
for Newberry District over several opponents, and it is 
related that he showed much electioneering skill in deal- 



MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 



• 



ing with the members, aided by his contagious good humor 
and wit. In the year 1813, when the second war with 
Great Britain interrupted communication by sea with 
the Northern States, Mr. Boyce began to trade overland 
with Philadelphia. Cotton was hauled from Newberry to 
Philadelphia in wagons, which then brought back goods 
purchased there by the young merchant, who made the 
journey on horseback. In 1815 he and a friend went on 
horseback to Amelia Island (off the Forida coast, near 
Fernandina), purchasing a stock of goods which was there 
for sale, and transporting it to Newberry by wagons. 

In 1815 Ker Boyce was married to Miss Nancy Johns- 
ton, of Newberry. She and also his second wife (the 
mother of James P. Boyce) were sisters of Job Johnston, 
who was distinguished as a chancellor. The following 
account of their father was copied from a Family Bible by 
Hon. Silas Johnston, of Newberry: '^John Johnstown 
[note the spelling] was born in the county of London- 
derry, Ireland, and married Mary Caldwell, daughter of 
Job Caldwell, in the same county, July 2, 1785. The 
fatlier of John was David Johnstown, whose wife was Mary 
Boyd, who was the daughter of Thomas Boyd, who served 
on the side of King William at the siege of Londonderry,- 
in the year 1689. ( Vide Smollett's History of England.) " 
So we see that the mother also of James P. Boyce was of 
a Scotch-Irish family, and they too were Presbyterians. 
Nancy Johnston was born in Fairfield, S. C, Oct. 9, 1795, 
and married July 11, 1812. Judge O'Neall remarks, 
'*No more lovely woman ever blessed a husband." 

In 1817, two years after the close of the war with Eng- 
land, it became manifest that there were great possibilities 
for the cotton trade from Charleston to the Northern cities 
and to Europe. Our far-seeing and enterprising young 
merchant became dissatisfied with Newberry, as too narrow 
a field, and too far from the sea. So he and his brother-in- 
law, Samuel Johnston, formed a co-partnership, and com- 



BIRTH AND ANCESTRY. 7 

menced business as merchants in King Street, Charleston. 
Subsequently they transferred their business to ^*The 
Bay/' and became factors and commission-merchants. The 
term *' factor/' according to its original use, might suggest 
that such men were only the agents of the cotton-planters, 
to sell their cotton and buy their plantation supplies. But 
the leading cotton factors soon began to advance money on 
the cotton, and themselves furnish the supplies. They 
would often provide these for the current year, taking the 
planter's obligation to pay with interest when the cotton 
should be sold, or taking a lien on the crop, which was 
sometimes specially authorized by law. Thus the cotton 
factors frequently became operators on an extensive scale, 
and men of great business talents had opportunity for 
large acquisitions of wealth. Judge O'Neall tells us that 
Mr. Samuel Johnston ^' was the most perfect man of busi- 
ness" he ever knew. He credits both the young part- 
ners with "an excellent judgment," and ascribes to Mr. 
Boyce "tireless energy and activity." So the firm made 
large profits, and rose rapidly tcr financial power. But Mr. 
Johnston's health gave way, and he died of consumption 
in 1822. A Mr. Henry had been associated with them, 
and the firm was for some years Boyce and Henry, and 
then Boyce, Henry, and Walter. 

"In 1823 Mr. Boyce sustained the first great misfor- 
tune of his life," in the death of his admirable wife, who 
lies buried in the cemetery at Newberry. She left three 
children, — John Johnston, Samuel J., and Mary C, who 
became Mrs. William Lane. 

In 1825 occurred one of the great periodical revulsions 
in trade and finance. At such times cotton factors are 
exposed to peculiar danger, when from the beginning of 
the year they have made large advances in supplies to 
planters, expecting to borrow money as needed, and replace 
it all when the cotton should be sold the next winter. 
When the banks shut down, and private loans become 



8 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

impossible, the cotton factor of large connections is apt to 
go under. Mr. Boyce's firm is said by our authority to have 
accumulated by this time fifty thousand dollars. He put 
the whole of it in requisition to save his business, but this 
would by no means have sufficed. Mr. Blackwood, presi- 
dent of the Planters' and Mechanics' Bank, had closely 
observed Mr. Boyce's business talents and character, and 
told him that the bank would furnish him funds to any 
needed extent. In all pursuits and relations, personal 
character tells. We learn (from an obituary) that at this 
time Mr. Boyce also upheld various other men, in whom 
with his remarkable insight he put just confidence, and 
enabled them to tide over the time of danger. 

In the latter part of this year, Oct. 25, 1825, Ker Boyce 
formed a second marriage, with his previous wife's younger 
sister, Amanda Jane Caroline Johnston, born Dec. 3, 
1806. Her children were five; namely, James, Nancy 
(Mrs. H. A. Tupper), Rebecca (Mrs. Burckmyer), Ker 
(or Kerr), Elizabeth (Mrs. Lawrence). This young wife, 
the mother of James, is described as singularly attractive 
and admirable. Thus Dr. H. A. Tupper says: "A more 
gentle and lovelier Christian woman never lived. Her 
person had the frail beauty of the lily; her character, the 
rich fragrance of the rose. The writer, as a little boy, 
knew her well and admired her greatly. Tristram Shandy 
says a man's history begins before his birth. The almost 
womanly gentleness and amiability of James P. Boyce 
may be clearly traced to his mother, — just as his hard 
common-sense, great executive ability, and deep vein of 
humor may be with equal readiness traced to his father 
and his paternal grandfather." 

It cannot be ascertained under what precise circum- 
stances Mr. Boyce and his wife, though both reared in 
Presbyterian families, began to attend the ministry of the 
young Baptist pastor, Basil Manly (see below in chapter 
iii.). In November, 1830, the pastor felt bound, for some 



BIRTH AND ANCESTRY. 9 

highly important reason, to attend the Baptist State Con- 
vention, tliough one of his children was very ill. He and 
his wife prayed^for direction, and decided that he must go; 
and all matters at the convention were satisfactorily ar- 
ranged. Returning, he found that the child, named John, 
had died and been buried. It was hard for him to preach 
on the following Sunday j but under a similar sense of duty 
he did preach, taking as his text Genesis xliii. 14: <<If 
1 be bereaved of my children, I am bereaved." ^ Through 
that sermon Mrs. Ker Boyce w'as converted; and others 
were known to have been specially blessed, as well as the 
preacher himself. In after years he would sometimes tell 
of these events, as showing that it is always best for us to 
subordinate personal and family affection to the claims of 
duty in the service of Christ. And who would have 
thought that Mrs. Boyce's little boy, near the same age as 
the one he had lost, was in the course of Providence to 
preach Basil Manly 's funeral sermon, with grateful recog- 
nition of the good done by that day^s discourse?^ 

^ The notes made in preparing are still in existence, and are singu- 
larly interesting and suggestive. Every thought comes right out of the 
text or the occasion, and the tone is healthy and uplifting. 

2 In October, 1891, the venerable and greatly beloved widow of Dr. 
Manly recited the circumstances of her child's death in a letter to a be- 
reaved young mother, and added : '* The Lord was with us both, and 
strengthened us for our duties. I can truly say He comforted us, and 
has ever been to us a tender, loving Father. Never doubt His tender 
mercies, my child, but trust in Him, and He will sustain and com- 
fort you." 



10 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 



CHAPTER II. 

THE CITY OP CHARLESTON. 

CHARLESTON has always been the most important 
city on the southern Atlantic coast. Its harbor is 
not so extensive as that of Port Royal, farther south in the 
same State, but was far better adapted to defence against 
assaults from the -sea. Its advantages in this respect 
attracted world-wide observation during the War of Se- 
cession. The principal channel across the bar has some 
sixteen feet water at ebb tide, which sufficed for the 
largest seargoing vessels until recent times. Since 1891 
jetties have been built by Congressional appropriations, 
which are beginning to wash out the bar; and it is hoped 
they will so deepen the channel as to receive the largest 
ocean steamers of to-day, and thus greatly increase the 
prosperity of this ancient seaport. The site of the city 
is beautiful. The Ashley and Cooper rivers, as they 
approach the sea, run a parallel course for nearly six miles, 
at no great distance apart, but somewhat widening towards 
the point at which they flow into, or in one sense consti- 
tute, the bay. On this peninsula between the rivers the 
city is built. The lower end, fronting the bay, is known 
as the Battery, — doubtless because (as in New York) bat- 
teries were early placed there for defence against hostile 
ships. The Cooper River, on the northeastern side of the 
city, and the Ashley,^ on the other side, are pleasing 

1 The rivers of South Carolina mostly retain their Indian names, as 
San tee, Pedee, Wateree, Congaree, Enoree, Edisto, Ashepoo, Saluda, etc. 
So the two rivers here mentioned were called Etiwan and Kiawah, but 



THE CITY OF CHARLESTON. H 

streams, and after their union the bay winds its way out 
for some seven miles southeastward to the ocean, with 
islands on either side that produce a picturesque effect, 
besides affording great facilities for defence. Sullivan's 
Island, on the northeastern side of the bay, has long been 
the seat of summer homes for some of the citizens. Here 
is situated Fort Moultrie, successor to tjiat palmetto fort 
which in 1776 resisted the bombardment of the British 
fleet, and fairly drove it away. The cannon-balls might 
penetrate into the palmetto logs, but their peculiar tough- 
ness of texture received and held the iron masses, without 
weakening the fortification. On the other side of the 
harbor lie James's Island and Morris Island, which be- 
came so famous during the recent war. Between Morris 
and Sullivan's Island, i^on a shoal in the harbor, and 
coveriog the main channel, is Fort Sumter, which was 
first built when James P. Boyce was a child, but in fact 
was not entirely completed when it became the theatre of 
the celebrated bombardment and defence.^ On a smaller 
shoal and much nearer to the city is the little fort called 
Castle Pinckney. The two rivers, the inner harbor, and 
the narrow straits that separate the islands from the main- 
land and from each other, are admirably adapted to boat- 
ing and fishing; and all the coast region formerly abounded 
in game, attracting the vigorous huntsman, with his gun 
and dogs. The city is very healthy, for those who are ac- 
climated, as the heat in summer is delightfully tempered 
by the sea-breeze. The average mortality is far less — 
as also in most of the cities on our southern coast — than 
in the great cities of the North. Occasional outbursts of 

afterwards received the two names of Sir Ashley Cooper. Gilmore 
Simms has a novel called ** The Cacique of Kiawah." 

1 See "The Defence of Charleston Harbor (1863-1865)," by Rev. 
John Johnson, who was Confederate Major of Engineers in charge of 
Fort Sumter, and has ^ven us an admirable book. Charleston: 
Walker, Evans, & Cogswell Co. 



12 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

yellow fever, brought from the West Indies, impress the 
imagination of people at a distance like some great rail- 
way or steamboat accident, while yet travel by steamer or 
rail is on the average far safer than by private convey- 
ance. The diseases produced by extreme cold in northern 
regions are much more destructive to life than those pro- 
duced by extreme heat, — a fact which reminds us that 
all the earliest seats of civilization were in hot countries. 
The wealthier people of Charleston and all the adjacent 
coast region could in summer cross at pleasure to Sullivan's 
Island and other cool spots on the bay, or could journey 
in their private carriages to Caesar's Head, Flat Rock, or 
Ashe vi lie, in the mountains of North Carolina, or far away 
to the White Sulphur and other springs in the Virginia 
mountains, where South Carolinians used to be very nu- 
merous, or could go by sea to Saratoga and Newport, or 
across to Europe. Thus they possessed a rare combination 
of advantages for health and every higher gratification. 
The planters who produced *' sea-island" cotton, the long 
staple of which was so much better adapted than <' up- 
lands " to the manufacture of all the finer fabrics, and 
thus commanded a greatly higher price, were better off 
than the owners of a gold-mine. Besides the summer 
journeys above mentioned, many of them would spend part 
of the winter in spacious and hospitable establishments 
which they maintained in Charleston, or in Columbia, the 
capital of the State, where they formed a ruling element 
in legislation and government. Every low-country parish 
had its separate senator, and the districts a much larger 
proportionate representation in the lower house than had 
been assigned by the old and still unchanged legislation 
to the up-country districts. In a word, the wealthy 
planters around and the wealthy citizens of Charleston 
constituted an aristocracy, with all the good and ill attach- 
ing to such a social condition. It is the fashion now in 
our country and in most countries to have only words of 



J 



THE CITY OF CHARLESTON. 13 

scorn for aristocratic institutions; yet, as often seen in 
America as well as in England, they certainly afford very 
great opportunity for developing and exalting individual 
character, and furnishing noble leaders of mankind. Many 
of these Charleston and low-country homes gathered large 
and carefully chosen libraries, with a growing preference 
for English editions, and often bound in English tree-calf. 
These books were read, and high discussion of history and 
literature, as well as philosophy and politics, prevailed in 
domestic and social gatherings, besides clubs and societies 
formed for the purpose, and conducted with great spirit. 
Charleston was long the chief seat of culture at the South, 
as Boston was at the North. Dr. J. B. Jeter, « celebrated 
Baptist minister of Virginia, from whom a thousand say- 
ings are repeated, once visited Charleston, having pre- 
viously spent some time in Boston. One day he asked a 
friend in Charleston, ** What do you think is the difference 
in the look of a Boston man and a Charleston man?" 
The friend referred the question back to him, and he said: 
" A Boston man looks as if he thought, * I know everything;' 
and a Charleston man, * I know everything that it 's worth 
while for a gentleman to know.' " It was a palpable hit, 
and might repay a good deal of reflection. 

The population of Charleston in 1830, when James P, 
Boy ce was a child, was 30,289, of whom 12,828 were 
whites. In 1840 the whites were 13,030, and the blacks 
had fallen off a little, being probably more in demand on 
the plantations, so that the total was 29,261. After this 
the white population gained more rapidly. In 1860 the 
total was 40,619, of whom 23,373 were white. In 1870 it 
was 48,956, of whom the whites were 26,207; but it is un- 
derstood that the blacks in that census were often quite 
incompletely enumerated. In 1890 the total was 54,955, 
of whom 23,919 were whites; and the blacks were again 
largely in the majority. 



14 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 



CHAPTER m. 

CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 

THE oldest child of Ker Boyce's second marriage, bom 
Jan. 11, 1827, was named after James L. Petigru, 
a highly distinguished lawyer of Charleston, a man 
of brilliant wit and other attractive qualities, and Mr. 
Boyce's cherished friend. He was of mixed Scotch-Irish 
and Huguenot ancestry, and born and reared in Abbeville 
District, adjoining Newberry. Mr. Boyce and he were of 
nearly the same age, and removed about the same time to 
Charleston. Ere many years Mr. Petigru had no rival at 
the Bar. In 1822-30 he was attorney-general of the State, 
and exceedingly popular. This popularity was greatly 
diminished by his opposition to the Nullification move- 
ment of 1830-32, which doubtless prevented his rising into 
the highest political distinction. In later years he was 
also steadfastly opposed to the Secession movement ; but (as 
we shall see) was so highly esteemed for personal char- 
acter, and legal abilities and attainments, that a Legis- 
lature bitterly hostile to his opinions treated him with 
marked consideration. Mr. Petigru's wife was quite a mu- 
sician, and one of their daughters was an artist; but he 
does not appear to have been himself much acquainted with 
music, whatever other artistic gifts he may have possessed. 
The story is told that once when Ole Bull came to Charles- 
ton, at the height of his reputation, and, appearing on the 
platform, began to tune the violin a little, Mr. Petigru 
turned to his wife and said, '' My dear, isn' t that superb ! '' 
" Hush, Mr. Petigru ! " she replied, ** he is only tuning the 
instrument; you 11 disgrace yourself." The great lawyer 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 15 

subsided in humiliation^ and a good while afterwards, 
when Bull was in the midst of one of his noblest passages, 
Mr. Petigru timidly touched his wife's elbow and said, 
**My dear, will the man never get done tuning his 
violin?" Mr. Petigru long outlived his early friend, 
surviving until 1863, when his namesake had become a 
man widely known and honored.^ 

The earliest glimpse we get of Jimmy Boyce, as he was 
familiarly called, is in connection with public worship. 
In the old First Baptist Church of Charleston, not many 
squares from the Battery, the beloved Thomas P. Smith, 
long a cotton factor in the city, recently pointed out to the 
writer the Boyce pew. It is a long pew, rather near the 
pulpit, extending from the centre aisle to the side aisle, 
and having only space enough for one seat between the 
side aisle and a large wooden column. In this space the 
rotund boy, with his fine head, could be seen regularly 
every Sunday, absorbed in a book until the service began ; 
and people called him **the little guardsman," always at 
his post. In this slight incident are already revealed 
several distinctive characteristics, — punctuality and self- 
reliance, love of reading, interest in public worship. 

The pastor at that time, as already indicated, was Basil 
Manly the elder, who became one of the most eminent 
Baptist ministers in the whole country. He was born in 
Chatham County, North Carolina, 1798; his elder brother, 
Charles, became governor of that State, and his younger 
brother, Matthias E., became a Justice of the Supreme 
Court of the State. Basil graduated at the College of 
South Carolina in 1821, with the first honor, his fellow- 
students including many gifted men. After preaching 
some years at Edgefield Courthouse, he removed to Charles- 
ton in March, 1826, and remained till 1837. Then for 
nearly twenty years he was president of the State Uni- 

1 See a Biographical Sketch of J. L. Petigru, by W. J. Grayson. 
New York: Harpers, 1866. 



16 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

versity of Alabama, showing extraordinary talent for 
administration as well as instruction. But he always 
loved the pastorate best, and returned to Charleston in 
1855. He spent his last years of failing health with his 
son and namesake at Greenville, S. C, where he died in 
1868. It was among the marked advantages of James P. 
Boyce's childhood to attend on Dr. Manly's ministry, and 
be brought in contact with such a pastor. His preaching 
was always marked by deep thought and strong argument, 
expressed in a very clear style, and by an extraordinary 
earnestness and tender pathos, curiously combined with 
positiveness of opinion and a masterful nature. People 
were borne down by his passion, convinced by his arga< 
ments, melted by his tenderness, swayed by his force of 
will. James Boyce was only ten years old when this hon- 
ored pastor moved away; but we might be sure he received 
from him in public and in private many a wholesome and 
lasting impression. 

Nor are we left to conjecture as to this matter. Witness 
the following extract from Dr. Boyce's Funeral Discourse 
upon the death of Dr. Manly in 1868: " Indeed, I do not 
know how a people could be more attached to a pastor than 
they were to Mr. Manly. He made himself accessible to 
all, manifested deep interest in their welfare, readily ad- 
vised them according to his best judgment, and above all 
showed a cordial sympathy with their joys and sorrows. 
Especially was this true in spiritual matters. No one 
ever understood better how to console a suffering soul, or 
dealt with it more tenderly. And his people loved him 
with a depth of devotion seldom equalled. Nor was this 
confined to the members of the church. The presence of 
no one conferred more pleasure upon any family. The 
little children felt him to be their own, and spoke of him 
as- such. And he loved them, and never forgot the word 
of kind exhortation, or admonition, or sympathy, suited to 
their case. The elders found in his genial intercourse a 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 17 

true copy of that of his Master, who mingled with men 
everywhere, entering into the ordinary social festivities of 
life, yet ever ready to utter the warning words of wisdom 
or counsel. It was his peculiar fcyrte to say a word in 
season, and from his lips things unseasonahle from others 
would be acceptable, because of the way in which he spoke 
them. . . . After a lapse of more than thirty years I can 
yet feel the weight of his hand, resting in gentleness and 
love upon my head. I can recall the words of fatherly 
tenderness, with which he sought to guide my childish 
steps. I can see his beloved form in the study, in the 
house in King Street. I can again behold him in our own 
family circle. I can remember the very spot in the house, 
where the bands which he was accustomed to wear with his 
gown were laid on a certain Thanksgiving Day on which 
he dined with us. I can call to mind his conversations 
with my mother, to whose salvation had been blessed a ser- 
mon preached on the Sunday after the death of one of his 
children upon the text, 'If I be bereaved of my children, 
I am bereaved.' And once more come to me the words of 
sympathy which he spake while he wept with her family 
over her dead body, and ministered to them as it was laid 
in the grave.'' 

James's boyhood and early youth were not fruitful of 
events. He entered, we are told by a comrade, into few of 
the games that prevailed among boys. He did not *' shoot 
marbles," ''play shinny," or engage in games of ball or 
"prisoner's base."^ As a bigger boy, he was not given 
to running, swimming, rowing, sailing, horseback-riding, 
or gunning. He was even averse to most of these sports, 
and through life never felt at ease on horseback. The ex- 
planation of all this is not found in any lack of sportive 

1 Another schoolmate writes to the same general effect, but says that 
he joined with great zest in such games as ball and shinny. In this 
conflict of authorities the Muse of History can only leave the q^uestion 
undecided. 

2 



18 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

diaposition, for he was the very quintessence of fun and 
jollity, but chiefly in the fact of his unusual size, which 
did not qualify him for sports requiring much activity 
or involving risk, and to which he sometimes referred in 
later years as having materially conditioned his early life. 
For the same reason, he never indulged in boxing, fencing, 
or fighting, — a not uncommon amusement of Charleston 
boys in his school-days. But this negative view of his 
youthful likes and dislikes makes only more prominent his 
fondness for archery. He organized a company of archers 
on the spacious grounds about his home in George Street, 
and was quite enthusiastic in the sport. Some of his 
friends find significance in this early desire for a definite 
object to aim at and hit. And his occasional liking for 
the more complicated aims and movements of the billiard 
table, with the great delight in chess which he developed 
at a later period, could hardly fail to suggest the skill and 
mastery of his combinations in after life. A friend of 
about the same age who knew him well adds the testimony 
that he was scrupulously temperate, and that the most 
searching scrutiny of memory does not recall a single 
act which stained his youth or young manhood with the 
slightest dishonor. 

From early childhood, James was an excessive reader. 
While his companions were in the *'city square,'' or on 
th^ '* citadel green," engaged in their physical sports, 
he would be lying flat on the " joggling-board, " in his 
father's piazza, absorbed in some story-book, novel, or his- 
tory. He would often drive down town with his father, 
on the way to the bank of which Ker Boyce had become 
president, and return with a pile of books on the front 
seat of the carriage, brought from the Charleston Library 
and other places; and these books he would devour in an 
incredibly short time. His voraciousness only increased 
by gratification ; and the number and variety of books that 
he read, all through life, was a marvel to his family and 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 19 

intimate friends. Besides his archery club, he organized 
at home^a debating society. The **hall" was the room 
over his father's carriage-house. He was a leader then, as 
he became afterwards in the college societies and in denom- 
inational gatherings. Some of the lads who stood with 
him in that *' upper room" have ranked, or rank now, 
among the foremost men of the Southern country. It is 
evident that the wide reading, which was thought exces- 
sive by his home folks and teachers, would serve him a 
good part on the floor of the debating society. 

When James was ten years old, his mother died, leav- 
ing four children younger than himself, of whom she 
charged him to take care; and this he often recalled in 
after life when thanked for any kindness. Her life and 
character made a great impression on Mary also, the 
daughter of the first marriage, then fourteen years old; 
and she and James would try very earnestly in the years 
that followed to carry out all her rules in the home life. 
The oldest now surviving daughter can remember but little 
of their mother, except that she was very particular about 
truthfulness, as James also was through life. It is related 
that she once gave the lad a hard Irsson in this respect. 
He remarked one Saturday morning that he would spend 
all his Saturday money on candy, and eat it all himself. 
When he returned, and, with his usual hearty generosity, 
wanted to distribute his candy, he was required to eat it all 
himself, because he had said he would. He took one of the 
little girls aside, and begged that she would ask mother 
to let him give her some; but no. Such was Mrs. Boyce's 
extreme solicitude as to truth ; for there was no thought of 
James's being stingy. At that time and through life he 
was not only generous, but very considerate towards others, 
and seemed to have as much delicate tact and intuitive per- 
ception of the situation as women have. He was also very 
grateful for any present or any slightest attention, — a 
rose, a book, or anything; and would tell his little sister 



20 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

how kind somebody had been. The younger children were 
very fond of James, and felfc that they could depend on 
him. He seemed to be an *' all-round" person, ready for 
everything. It is said that the four boys and four girls of 
the household gradually fell into couples; James and Re- 
becca being special cronies, John and Mary, Samuel and 
Nanny, Kerr and Lizzie. Yet James showed no unplea- 
sant favoritism in any way, and was always sympathetic, 
not only towards the other children, but to everybody. A 
friend states that the family housekeeper of those days, 
who cared for the children, was in after years uniformly 
visited by Dr. Boyce when in Charleston, and we learn 
from his business agent in Charleston that he regularly 
supplied her wants as long as she lived, and provided for 
her funeral. i 

At home, as well as elsewhere, James was fond of fun, 
delighting in all manner of jokes, and never at all vexed 
when made the butt of a joke himself. This sportive turn 
of mind was clearly inherited from his father, who over- 
flowed with amusing stories of his own youth. James 
liked when a lad to go out at Christmas to the plantation 
homes of his father's friends, where they often dispensed 
a magnificent and delightful hospitality; and when some- 
what older, he was quite fond of being with girls. His 
father required the boys to be scrupulously polite and 
attentive to their sisters, and himself always treated his 
daughters with marked courtesy and consideration. If one 
of them was out at evening, she must not come home in 
the carriage alone, but one of her brothers must go after 
her. Through life their father would give a son almost 
anything that one of his sisters asked. ^ The beginning 
of James's library was made with a gift of five hundred 

* In like manner Patrick Henry, as we learn through his brother-in- 
law, was always the advocate of his sisters * * when any favor or indul- 
gence was to be procured from their mother" (Wirt Henry's Life of 
Patrick Henry, vol. i. p. 9). 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 21 

dollars, handed him in New York after he graduated at 
college, at the special request of Nanny, as a gift to her. 
James was remarkable for being easy to please as to bodily 
comfort, and this continued through life, in all his wide 
travelling; he would be sometimes quite solicitous about 
a companion's comfort, and not seem to think of himself. 
It is also remembered that he appeared to his sisters a 
brave boy, while gentle and tender, and that he was sin- 
gularly kind to animals. Those who knew him in later 
life would see in all this how *'the child is father of the 
man." 

Mrs. General Dickinson, of Florida, nee Mary Elizabeth 
Ling, on a visit to Louisville in 1890 told that when a 
little girl at the dancing-school in Charleston she was al- 
ways glad whenever Madame Feugas told her to waltz with 
Jimmy Boyce, because he was so springy and strong, and 
they went whirling. This exercise served to make some 
amends for the lad's disinclination to schoolboy sports. 
We know that his *' barrel-shaped " figure — as several 
have described it — finally developed into a very symmet- 
rical specimen of " episcopal dimensions," and his move- 
ments were always remarkably light and graceful. 

In his earlier school-days James was hardly a student, 
in the common acceptation of the term, but seemed to 
neglect his text-books through devotion to general reading. 
Dr. W. T. Brantly, Sr., who was pastor of the First 
Church from 1837-1844, called Mr. Boyce's attention to 
this defect in the lad. He was not then old enough to enter 
Charleston College, though he had been over the requisite 
studies. The father, who had a remarkable knowledge of 
men, as shown throughout his business career, had tried a 
successful experiment on an older son, which he now re- 
peated. Samuel, who was seven years older than James, 
had said much about a desire to go to sea. His father 
finally secured him a cabin passage from New York around 
Cape Horn ; and after an absence of two years, he never 



22 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

spoke again of going to sea. In like manner, James was 
taken from school and put in the wholesale drygoods store 
of Wiley, Banks, & Co., in which his father was a partner. 
This new life would give excellent training of a certain 
kind until he grew old enough for college. James him- 
self once told the writer in later years how his father gave 
express directions, hoth to him and to the men in the 
store, that he was to perform his full share of all the 
roughest and hardest work done by other boys of the same 
age. He must rise at six in the morning, go down and 
help to sweep out the establishment, and at any time be 
ready to help bring out the heaviest boxes, and in general 
must stand back for nothing. All this exactly suited his 
energetic temperament.^ Many a rich man's son might 
feel in after life, as was felt in this case, that such a 
boyish discipline had been very helpful. However, six 
months of it sufficed for the lad's wishes, and he was quite 
willing to return to school. He had always stood fairly 
well in his classes, as a classmate testifies. The fact is^ 
he acquired the appointed lessons with wonderful rapidity; 
and then threw aside his school-books to revel in his 
favorite authors, — never, however, of evil or doubtful 
character, the books he read being always open to the in- 
spection of the family. But returning now to school, he 
turned over a new leaf as to the lessons, and applied him- 
self with such diligence as to have an excellent standing 
in his classes, both at the well-known private school of 
Professor Bailey, at the High School, and at the Charleston 
College. 

Yet, while the lessons now received regular attention, 
the wide reading continued. Apart from the books com- 

1 The early familiarity with elegant dress-goods also helped to 
develop his remarkable talent and taste in that respect. In after 
years his wife and sisters and daughters not only sought his advice in 
such matters, but would often commission him, when visiting 
Charleston or New York, to make the most important selections. 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 23 

mon to all well-fumished boys of that period, — those 
great classics of literature for the young which are at the 
present day in danger of being neglected for the immense 
multitude of current and transient books, — and besides 
the novels of Cooper and Marryatt, we can see that the 
eager young reader would find much to attract him in the 
early history of Charleston and of South Carolina. He 
would often notice a fine statue of William Pitt (Earl of 
Chatham), ** erected by the Commons House of Assembly 
of South Carolina," in gratitude for his procuring a re- 
peal of the Stamp Act in 1766. It was placed in 1769 at 
the intersection of Broad and Meeting Streets. The right 
arm was destroyed by a cannon-ball from the English bat- 
teries on James Island during the siege of Charleston in 
1780. After 1808 it stood in front of the Orphan House 
until a recent time. This fine statue would kindle the 
lad's curiosity about the causes of the great American 
Revolution. William Gilmore Simms published in 1840, 
when James Boyce was thirteen years old, a ^* History of 
South Carolina, from its first European Discovery to its 
Erection into a Republic," designed avowedly for the 
young, and suggested by the wants of his own daughters. 
Written in the author's flowing and agreeable style, and 
detailing the early settlement of South Carolina, the three 
attacks of the British upon Charleston, including the 
famous story of the Palmetto fort and Sergeant Jasper, and 
the stirring adventures of Marion and Sumter, we may be 
sure that this book was eagerly seized upon by a lad so 
fond of reading. Mr. Simms was a native of Charleston, 
and spent his life there (1806 to 1870), though usually 
giving half the year to his country home in Barnwell Dis- 
trict. Before the appearance of this history he had pub- 
lished numerous volumes of poems and romancQis, including 
the " Yemassee," which is considered his best novel, and the 
** Partisan," which is a romance with Marion :is the chief 
hero; many others appeared while James Boyce was still 



24 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

growing up in Charleston. Mr. Simms, like some other 
famous novelists, wrote too rapidly and hurriedly, and thus 
fell short of doing justice to his noble powers. Yet Edgar 
A. Poe pronounced him ^'the best novelist America had 
produced, after Cooper," and his books of every kind were 
exactly sruited to delight an enthusiastic Charleston youth. 
It is worth while to notice that his History of South Caro- 
lina ended with the close of the Revolution; and the phrase 
in the title, **to its Erection into a Republic," is an amus- 
ing indication of the type of political opinion which was 
so popular in the State. ^ Besides the works of Simms and 
others, ** Horse-shoe Robinson " was at that time a favorite 
Southern romance. James was too young to be much in- 
terested in the brilliant and powerful ** Southern Review," 
published in Charleston from 1832 to 1840, and edited by 
the famous Hugh S. Legare and others ; but he read the 
volumes as he grew older, and was not a little stirred by 
the presence in the city of several gifted and eminent men 
who had contributed to it essays seldom equalled in even 
the great English Quarterlies. 

Professor William E. Bailey, who was young Boyce's 
first teacher after he returned to school, was a man of 
classic tastes and aspirations, and evidently became much 
attached to this now diligent pupil; for when James P. 
Boyce opened the Theological Seminary at Greenville in 
1859, it received Professor Bailey's library, specially be- 
queathed by him for that purpose, and comprising, among 
the thirteen hundred volumes, many of the most elaborate 
and costly editions of the great classic authors, as well as 
the histories of Prescott and Motley and many others, and 
a complete edition of Gilmore Simms's novels, which have 
doubtless many a time relieved the ever-arduous labors of 
theological students. 

1 After this was written appeared the Life of William Gilmore 
Simms, by W. P. Trent (Houghton, Mifflin & Co.). It is an interest- 
ing hook, but the author seems curiously incapable of understanding 
the Carolina people of that day. 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 26 

The Charleston High School had been organized in 1839. 
The venerable Dr. Henry M. Bruns, who still resides in 
Charleston, at a great age, was principal at the time when 
James Boyce was for six months a student there. Among 
the teachers was Andrew Flynn Dickson, who is said to 
have been a remarkably gifted man, specially zealous 
about distinguishiug between words, and always using 
exactly the right term. It is quite likely that in this 
respect he made a definite impression on his pupil, who 
was through life solicitous to get the right word, and was 
thereby frequently retarded in extemporaneous utterance. 
Dr. Bruns recently told the writer that young Boyce was 
fonder of mathematics than of classics, and received at the 
Commencement a silver medal for solving an original 
problem in algebra. , He was a good, sensible lad, con- 
scientious in preparing his lessons, jolly, and quite pop- 
ular with the students. The Commencement mentioned 
was held at the Lutheran church, the pastor of which w^as 
the celebrated Dr. Bachman, whose works on natural 
history (some of them in association with Audubon, with 
whom he was also closely connected by marriage) did not 
begin to appear until 1850. Bachman was already a great 
promoter of education. Coming originally from New 
York State, he continued pastor of this church from 1815 
until his death in 1874. He was a friend of Ker Boyce, 
and was always regarded by his son with great pride as an 
honor to Charleston. Other medals were taken at this 
Commencement by Bazile E. Lanneau, afterwards a Pres- 
byterian minister and theological professor (and brother 
of Rev. Charles H. Lanneau), whose kinsman and namesake 
is Basil Lanneau Gildersleeve, the famous Professor of 
Greek in the University of Virginia and Johns Hopkins 
University, himself a native of Charleston ; by Charles H. 
Simonton, now United States Judge for the District of 
South Carolina, and one or two other men who became well 
known. The venerable principal remembers that the poet. 



26 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Henry Timrod, was also his pupil at the High School, and 
that he recited at Commencement a passage from Moore 
with beautiful effect. Timrod was a native of Charleston, 
two years younger than James Boyce, and is said by Mr. 
W. G. Whilden to have been one of Boyce's intimate 
friends. He afterwards studied law in the office of Mr. 
Petigru, as Boyce would no doubt have done had his 
father's cherished wish been carried through. Paul H. 
Hayne, another distinguished Carolina poet, was also a 
Charlestonian, three years younger than James Boyce, and 
resided there during the greater part of his life. After 
Boyce had spent some time at Charleston College, and de- 
signed to enter Brown University, Dr. Bruns gave him 
some special lessons by way of preparation. It is said 
that at the memorial services held in the Old First Church 
after Dr. Boyce's death, this aged teacher was present, 
and showed deep emotion. A life-long instructor can have 
no truer, deeper joy than in surveying the noble character 
and useful career of those whom he helped to mould in 
their youth. Mr. Whilden states that while at the High 
School James was frequently a peacemaker among the 
boys, because of the confidence felt in his justice and 
equity; also that his amiability and courtesy won him 
friends among all classes, rich and poor; and though all 
knew that his father possessed large means, it was no bar- 
rier to general sociability. This was the more remarkable 
in the case of one who already had very decided views, and 
a very earnest way of expressing them. 

In the Sunday-school he was at one time taught by 
Charles H. Lanneau, Sr., a man of excellent talents and 
noble character, other members of the class being J. L. 
Reynolds, Basil Manly, Jr., William Royall, William J- 
Hard, andT.W. Mellichamp, all of whom became ministers. 
When twelve years old his Sunday-school teacher at the 
First Church was Henry Holcombe Tucker, who became 
one of the most distinguished Baptist preachers and edu- 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 27 

cators in the Southern country. He was a native of 
Georgia, but spent most of his early life in Philadelphia, 
where his grandfather, Dr. Henry Holcombe, was pastor; 
he graduated in 1838, at the Columbian College, in Wash- 
ington city (now Columbian University); and the next 
year, at the age of twenty, was residing in Charleston, as 
** clerk'' in a bookstore kept by his uncle, Mr. John 
Hoff, in Broad Street. It was a great privilege for young 
Boyce to be brought even for a short time under the 
influence of that singularly acute and powerful mind, that 
enthusiastic and inspiring instructor. We shall have 
occasion towards the close of this Memoir to quote from 
Dr. Tucker's striking address at the memorial services 
held before the Southern Baptist Convention after Dr. 
Boyce 's death. 

At a somewhat later time Dr. Brantly formed a Sunday- 
school class in the Greek Testament; and being greatly 
burdened with duties as pastor, and professor in Charleston 
College, he afterwards turned over the class to B. C. Press- 
ley, Esq., a member of the church. Judge Pressley re- 
members as belonging to the class, James P. Boyce, H. 
Allen Tupper, James K. Mendenhall, and R. Furman 
Whilden, who all became ministers. He says that young 
Boyce seemed anxious to get the exact meaning of the 
Greek, and that he thought him likely to become a strong 
and clear thinker. When some fifteen years old, James was 
enamoured of a girl belonging to one of the Presbyterian 
churches. He went one Sunday morning to that church, 
and so placed himself in the gallery as to command a full 
view of her family pew. There came a stranger into the 
pulpit, and preached, more than an hour, a sermon abound- 
ing in deep thought and strong argument. When it was 
over, the lad felt positively ashamed of himself, for he had 
been so busy listening as hardly to look at his girl. The 
preacher turned out to be the great Dr. Thornwell, who 
probably never received a higher tribute to his powers. 



28 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

It is also clear that the entranced hearer was no ordinary 
youth. 

From 1843 to 1845, James Boyce was a student at the 
Charleston College, passing through the curriculum of the 
Freshman and Sophomore classes. This institution had 
been founded in 1787, and though lacking sufficient endow- 
ment to support a large faculty, it had some able teachers. 
Dr. Brantly, the Baptist pastor, an able and scholarly man, 
was now president of the college. One of the professors 
was Edward R. Miles, a student of Sanskrit and learned 
in various languages, who afterwards became an Episcopal 
clergyman. At college the youth was increasingly stu- 
dious ; but no study suppressed his exuberance of spirits, 
which occasionally overflowed in some ''college prank," 
never injurious to any one, and always regarded among 
his comrades as venial, because clearly the result of mere 
humor and merriment. Dr. Brantly formed a high esti- 
mate of his abilities, but had some misgivings on the 
score of his jollity, with which the grave and stem presi- 
dent could not readily sympathize. Once when engaged 
in some practical joke on the campus, James ran behind 
a tree which was not big enough to hide him, and Dr. 
Brantly, looking out of a window, said, ''There is Boyce, 
who will be a great man, if he does not become a devil." 
Yet he stood well in every class, especially in Latin and 
mathematics, and in history. And no one was more popu- 
lar, in the class-room, in the debating society, or on the 
campus. Several fellow-students state that James's utter 
loathing of everything mean, and the brave and manly 
stand he always assumed when any principle was involved, 
together with his uniform regard for the feelings and 
wishes of others, made him a general favorite in the col- 
lege. At a time when many students were hostile to the 
president, young Boyce stood up for him, even when al- 
most alone. On one occasion he slapped a student in 
the face for some reason; but that evening waited for him 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 29 

and begged his pardon. James's ringing laugh could be 
heard afar, and was contagious. He would sometimes 
purposely mistranslate a Latin phrase, and when called to 
account would justify it by a joke, which worthy Dr. 
Hawkesworth, the Latin professor from Dublin, did not 
always appreciate. Among his classmates was Francis T. 
Miles, a native of Charleston, and now a distinguished 
physician and medical professor in Baltimore. In a letter 
of February, 1889, to Dr. Tupper, he speaks concerning 
Boyce as follows: — 

*' It was my good fortune during my college career in Charles- 
ton to have for a friend and classmate James P. Boyce ; and al- 
though ever since we have been widely separated in life, I have 
always carried with me a strong and affectionate remembrance of 
him. 

^^ He was conspicuous among his class and the students of the 
college by his talents and the strong, rapid grasp of mind, which 
not only enabled him to master with ease the studies of the cur- 
riculum, but caused him to push his reading, thought, and inquiry 
quite beyond the circle of required recitations. But it is not only 
as the clear, original thinker, the quick, cogent reascmer, that I 
remember him. I recall him as the genial, amiable, affectionate 
companion, who was never tempted (how rare a quality among 
young men !) to give pain or annoyance by a jest, nor, standing 
as he did on the high ground of a very pure morality, to scorn or 
animadvert upon those on an inferior level. 

" I believe his subsequent life was the bright day of this clear 
dawn ; and he now rests from labors which endeared him to those 
who admired him." 

In March, 1845, the pastor and college president, Dr. 
Brantley, died. Born in North Carolina in 1787, he was 
graduated with distinction at the South Carolina College 
in Columbia, and early became remarkable for his fine 
classical culture and his eloquence as a preacher. His 
pastorates of eight years at Beaufort, S. C, of seven years 
at Augusta, Ga., — where he founded the church, and was 



30 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

at the same time rector of an academy, — and of eleven 
years at the First Baptist Church in Philadelphia, were 
all surpassingly popular and successful. His health be- 
ginning to fail in Philadelphia, he returned southward, 
succeeded Dr. Manly in Charleston in 1837, and soon 
after became president of Charleston College. Such com- 
bined labors, though often performed by eminent minis- 
ters, are necessarily apt to be exhausting. It was a great 
blessing for young Boyce, and several others destined to 
become eminent ministers, to attend upon the ministry 
of this great man. 

Dr. Eichard Fuller said of Brantly that "his char- 
acteristics were grandeur of conception, and reverence for 
divine revelation." Dr. Manly said: *^He seemed ever 
to come fresh from communion with his Saviour, mellowed 
and enriched by hours of prayerful seclusion. I must 
regard him as the most uniformly engaging, instructive, 
and inspiring preacher that it has ever been my good for- 
tune to hear." Dr. Sprague in his "Annals" says in 
regard to some of Brant ly's published writings: "They 
were read and re-read, and laid up among the selectest 
treasures of memory." ^ 

It was no doubt partly in consequence of Dr. Brantly's 
death that Mr. Boyce determined at the close of that ses- 
sion, which was James's Sophomore year, to send him to 
Brown University. The father's penetrating insight into 
character must have already begun to discern in the youth 
of eighteen years no ordinary possibilities. There was in 
many respects a striking resemblance. James inherited 
his father's large frame, fine head, and strong features; 
also in a remarkable degree his business talent and force 
of will, together with his cheerfulness even in times of 
special adversity and trial. It was Mr. Boyce's fond hope 

* See H. A. Tupper*s volume, ** Two Centuries of the First Baptist 
Church in South Carolina (1683-1883)." Baltimore: R. H. Woodward 
& Co. 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 31 

that liis son would become an eminent lawyer, perhaps a 
distinguished statesman, and at the same time would con- 
serve and carry forward his own great business under- 
takings, and care for the financial interests of his numerous 
children. 

While his son was growing up, Ker Boyce had lived a 
very laborious life, for some years adding political activities 
to his ever-enlarging business engagements. When the 
great Nullification struggle began, in 1830, we are assured 
by Chief Justice O'Neall, from personal knowledge, that 
Mr. Boyce was opposed to the dangerous experiment ; but 
in the political combinations that arose, and through the 
skilful tactics of General James Hamilton, he was induced 
to act with the Nullification party, as practically the wisest 
course. The Chief Justice, who was on the opposite side, 
says that this ** secured the triumph of Nullification;" 
for Mr. Boyce's many business friends, scattered all over 
the State, '^took very much his lead." He was subse- 
quently a representative in the Legislature for the parish 
of St. Philip's and St. Michael's, and State Senator during 
two terms (1840-1848). When the Bank of Charleston 
was started, Mr. Boyce took a large amount of the stock, 
which he found very profitable ; and some time afterwards 
was president of the bank for several years. This was at 
that time the largest bank in the South, having a capital 
of three millions. S. Y. Tupper, Esq., of Charleston 
(who died in 1891), being in Washington city in 1840, 
had a conversation with President Van Buren, in which 
**the President said he had read Mr. Boyce's bank reports 
with much interest and instruction, and that they were the 
most able and intelligent papers on finance and banking 
he had ever read, and had been of service to him in his 
messages to Congress."^ 

Mr. Boyce was also actively concerned in the leading 

* Mr. Tupper wrote down these words soon after leaving the Presi- 
dent, and gave them in a letter of January 9, 1889. 



32 MEMOm OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

improvements of the city, such as the erection of the 
Charleston Hotel and the Hayne Street buildings; and 
two important wharves still bear his name. In 1837 he 
passed through a second great commercial revulsion. But 
though popularly supposed to be much shaken, he had 
learned from the former experience, and was now in no real 
danger.^ He had to pay out large sums for his friends and 
customers, but he had habitually taken pains to become 
liable for no man who had not more than the corresponding 
amount of visible property. Many an eminent business 
man has from some early experience of severe struggles and 
losses — sometimes even temporary failure — acquired the 
prudence necessary to temper his enterprising spirit, and 
enable him to steer safely through all the financial storms 
of subsequent life. After this period of trial in 1837, 
Mr. Boyce retired from the factorage and commission busi- 
ness, and employed his great and increasing wealth in other 
ways. He was one of the founders of the Graniteville 
Manufacturing Company, which established near Aiken, 
S. C, the most extensive cotton factories in the Southern 
States. This great establishment is still prosperous, and 
stock in it is still held by some of Mr. Boyce's heirs. He 
also united with a friend in establishing a wholesale dry- 
goods house in New York city which did a very large 
Southern business, and of which we shall afterwards hear, 
in the course of his son's history. Soon after the period 
we have reached, he began large investments in coal lands 
around Chattanooga, and a furnace, foundry, etc., in that 
rising city, which were afterwards developed and made ex- 
tremely profitable by James, as his father's executor. Mr. 
Ker Boyce never became a church member, but he was for 
many years president of the board of trustees of the Baptist 
church to which his wife belonged, and a generous finan- 
cial supporter. 



AT BROWN UNIVERSITY. 33 



CHAPTER IV. 

AT BROWN UNIVEEISITY. 

THE Baptists of South Carolina had from the begin- 
ning taken an active interest in Brown University 
(originally called Rhode Island College), founded at 
Providence, R. I., in 1765, and generous contributions 
were sent by them towards its support and endowment. 
This being the first American college founded by Bap- 
tists, it awakened interest among the churches of that 
denomination throughout the colonies. The movement for 
its institution began with the noble old Philadelphia Asso- 
ciation, and was heartily taken up in Rhode Island; and 
it is doubtful whether anywhere else the zeal for it was 
as great as in South Carolina, where the leading Baptists 
were already quite pronounced in favor of an educated 
ministry. In fact, it was at first a question whether the 
proposed institution should be placed in Rhode Island or 
in South Carolina; and the former is said to have been 
preferred ^ because the principles of religious liberty which 
Roger Williams had infused into that Colony made it easy 
for a Baptist institution to obtain a charter, while in 
South Carolina there was a religious establishment, namely, 
of the Episcopal Church. Among the honored presidents 
of the University had been Jonathan Maxcy, D.D., who 
afterwards went South for his health, and was for sixteen 
years president of the College of South Carolina at Co- 
lumbia, where his extraordinary eloquence was greatly 
admired by such men as Mr. Petigru and Judge O'Neall. 

* So Dr. Boyce stated in an address before the alumni of Brown 
University in 1871. 

3 



34 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

He died there in 1820, and his tomb is conspicuous on the 
campus. 

When young Boyce entered Brown, in 1845, the president 
for eighteen years had been Francis Way land, who was 
one of the most distinguished of all American educators, 
and who made a more potent impression upon the char- 
acter, opinions, and usefulness of James Boyce than any 
other person with whom he came in contact. Dr. Way- 
land's famous sermon on ^' The Moral Dignity of the Mis- 
sionary Enterprise '' had been preached in Boston as early 
as 1823. His "Elements of Moral Science,'' published 
in 1835, was already widely used, and is believed to have 
become the most popular of all treatises on the subject in 
our language, including a revised edition in 1865. The 
** Elements of Political Economy " had appeared in 1837. 
From the nature of the subject, and the necessity of taking 
sides upon some questions involving heated political dis- 
cussion, this treatise gained no phenomenal circulation, 
but it has been very widely used, and regarded as a re- 
markably good introduction to political economy as then 
held and taught. Dr. Wayland was already giving a full 
course of original lectures on Intellectual Philosophy, but 
his treatise on that subject did not appear till 1854. It 
is a notable epoch in the life of many a gifted young 
man when he first makes systematic study of psychology 
and logic, of ethics and sociology. This must have 
been in a very high degree the case with young Boyce 
when studying these subjects under the lead of a man so 
able in general, so impressive as an instructor, and (as we 
can now see) so like in many respects to the type of char- 
acter and abilities which the young man himself was des- 
tined to develop. For we can perceive that each possessed 
sound practical judgment, combined with love of abstract 
thinking, and intense but quiet religious fervor; each 
showed great force of will and personal dignity, united 
with humility, considerateness, and benevolence; each 



AT BROWN UNIVERSITY. 35 

was eminently truth-loving in fttudious inquiry and in 
statement, promptly indignant at any exhibition of insin- 
cerity or dishonesty, and yet forbearing, and in all per- 
sonal matters ready to forgive; each was cheerful and 
sometimes merry, yet full of serious aims and purposes. 
In style also, both men were clear in explanation and 
strong in argument, and used excellent English. These 
similarities may help to account for the profound and per- 
manent impression made by Dr. Wayland upon this pupil, 
who throughout his life delighted in every grateful ex- 
pression of obligation, and in supporting his own views by 
reference to any similar opinion of the great college presi- 
dent. And if this instance was conspicuous, it was far 
from being singular; for no pupil of Dr. Wayland can 
have failed to receive benefit, and very many, including 
men of great distinction in various callings, have ac- 
counted their contact with him as the highest educational 
privilege of their life. Mr. Boyce adopted, when he be- 
came a teacher of theology, President Wayland's method 
of analytical recitations, without questioning; and some 
other pupils, probably many others, have done likewise. 
Hon. C. S. Bradley, Chief Justice of Rhode Island, stated 
to the writer some years ago that the alumni of Brown 
were proud of the very large proportion of eminent law- 
yers included in their number; and he believed it to result 
from Wayland's method of teaching, since the main thing 
for a lawyer is the power of making a clear and complete 
analysis of the case. 

Dr. Wayland's studious fairness and moderation in 
argument had just been strikingly exhibited in a newspa- 
per discussion with Dr. Richard Fuller, then of Beaufort, 
S. C. (afterwards of Baltimore), on ** Domestic Slavery con- 
sidered as a Scriptural Institution." The articles on both 
sides were afterwards published in a volume. The sympa- 
thizers with each of the disputants generally considered 
their champion to have had the best of the argument; but 



36 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

it was universally agreed that both conducted the discus- 
sion in a good Christian spirit and with good taste. This 
was notable, for it was a day of grievous political bitter- 
ness, and the controversy as to slavery was swelling higher 
and higher towards the terrific outburst of fifteen years 
later. 

Among the other professors during Boyce's two years 
at Brown University were several men of marked ability 
and distinction. Dr. Alexis Caswell, Professor of Math- 
ematics and Natural Philosophy, was an able and ear- 
nest teacher, an agreeable preacher, and remarkable 
for his courtesy as a gentleman, and the strong hold 
he took upon the respect and affection of young men. 
William Gammell, Professor of Khetoric and English 
Literature, was a man of fine literary taste, and the au- 
thor of some well-written books. John L. Lincoln, son 
of the famous Boston publisher, had just become Professor 
of the Latin Language and Literature, after a course at 
Brown and Newton, and several years as a student in Ger- 
many, and was already a pleasing and inspiring teacher; 
he afterwards published very good and popular editions of 
Livy and Horace. James R. Boise had also recently be- 
come full Professor of the Greek Language and Literature, 
which he has ever since continued to teach, in various 
institutions, with uncommon exactness of scholarship 
and skill as an instructor, and with the high respect 
of all who know him. He is now Emeritus Professor of 
New Testament Interpretation in the Divinity School 
of Chicago University; besides ** Exercises in Greek 
Composition '' and other text-books for school and col- 
lege, he has published several small and excellent volumes 
explaining the Greek text of certain Epistles of Paul. 

The Junior class of 1845-1846, which James P. Boyce 
entered, contained thirty-five men. Several of these must 
be here mentioned; and there are doubtless others whose 
names would attract the attention of persons more thor- 



AT BROWN UNIVERSITY. 37 

• 

oughly acquainted with New England and the Northwest. 
Frederic Denison became a Baptist minister, pastor of sev- 
eral churches in E>hode Island and Connecticut, and chap- 
lain in the Union Army for three years, and has published 
a large number of pleasing and popular works. George 
Park Fisher afterwards studied theology at Yale and An- 
dover and in Germany, and is the well-known Professor of 
Ecclesiastical History in the Yale Divinity School. Be- 
sides numerous elaborate articles in the reviews, he has 
published quite a number of valuable books, including 
*'The Beginnings of Christianity,'' ** History of the 
Reformation," ** Outlines of Universal History," ** Faith 
and Rationalism," **The Grounds of Theistic and Chris- 
tian Belief," and ** History of the Christian Church." 
Reuben Aldridge Guild has spent his life as librarian of 
Brown University, becoming one of the eminent librarians 
of the country. He has produced several books of great 
interest, including a life of James Manning (the first 
president of the university), a Biographical Introduction 
to the Writings of Roger Williams, a History of Brown 
University, and ''Chaplain Smith and the Baptists." 
He and Boyce formed a special friendship, which was 
maintained with ever-increasing cordiality through all 
the years. Whenever Dr. Boyce was able to attend 
annual meetings of his class he was the guest of Dr. 
Guild; and a visit of the latter to Boyce in Louisville is 
remembered by many with special interest. John Hill 
Luther graduated at Newton in 1850, and has ever since 
lived in the South, as teacher and Baptist minister, — iii 
Georgia and South Carolina, in Missouri and Texas. He 
edited the "Central Baptist" of St. Louis for ten years, 
was long president of Baylor Female College at Belton, 
Texas, and is now one of the editors of the ''Baptist 
Standard," Waco. He delivered an address at a memorial 
meeting after Dr. Boyce's death. Amos Fletcher Spaul- 
ding was afterwards graduated at Newton, and spent 



38 MEMOIR OF JAMES P, BOYCE. 

his life as a Baptist pastor in Canada and Kew England, 
mucli respected and beloved. Ambrose P. S. Stuart be- 
came a distinguished Professor of Chemistry in New 
England and Illinois, afterwards residing in Nebraska. 
Benjamin Thomas went to Burmah as a missionary, and 
has been called **the Apostle to the Karens/' From a 
class report forty years after their graduation it appears 
that thirteen of the class became ministers, eight lawyers, 
and five presidents or professors, and four are set down 
as poets. 

According to the class system, which at that time was 
rigorously observed, a student had but little association 
with members of other classes than his own. But it 
ought to be mentioned that among the Seniors of Boyce's 
Junior year were Samuel Sullivan Cox, — the celebrated 
** Sunset Cox," — and Francis Wayland, Jr., now the dis- 
tinguished Professor of Law in Yale University. Among 
the Sophomores of that year were James Kirk Menden- 
hall, of Charleston, who was a friend of Boyce from boy- 
hood, was afterwards with him at Princeton, and has 
been very useful as a Baptist minister in South Caro- 
lina; James Wheaton Smith, who graduated at Newton, 
and was long an eminent Baptist pastor in Philadel- 
phia; and Adin B. Underwood, who was Boyce's room- 
mate, and an earnest Christian, who became a prominent 
lawyer and a brigadier-general in the Union army; and 
the two had a joyful reunion at Providence some years 
after the war. The Freshman class of that year included 
James Burrell Angell, now president of the University 
of Michigan, and Heman Lincoln Wayland, now editor 
of the ** National Baptist; " and in the Freshman class of 
Boyce's senior year was George Dana Boardman, now 
Baptist pastor in Philadelphia. 

In May, 1845, James P. Boyce had been present at the 
Baptist Convention in Augusta, Ga., which formed the 
Southern Baptist Convention, — though he was not a 



AT BEOWN UNIVEBSITY. 39 

member of that body, being not yet a church-member. 
But although a division then took place between Northern 
and Southern Baptists as to their missionary work, those 
of the South felt, and have always continued to feel, a 
deep interest in the work of their Northern brethren, and 
especially in Adoniram Judson. So it cannot have failed 
to impress the young student when, in November, 1845, 
Judson came to Brown University, of which he was an 
honored graduate, and remained some time as a guest of 
Dr. Wayland. Some persons of like age remember to 
have been profoundly impressed by even the reports of 
persons present at the Southern Baptist Convention in 
Bichmond the following spring, who saw the great mis- 
sionary, and could repeat the few words he was strong 
enough to speak. 

Concerning Boyce's life as a student in Brown Uni- 
versity, the testimony on all hands is that he did his work 
thoroughly and well. Take, for example, the following 
extract from a letter of James E. Boise, the Professor of 
Greek, written in February, 1889; — 

'' He was a pupil of mine in his college course* and I have a 
very distinct recollection of him as he appeared in the class-room. 
He was always attentive, scholarly, and a perfect gentleman. 
He was one of that type of students whom a teacher does not 
soon forget. Though more than forty years have elapsed since 
that time, and though I have had classes, often very large, 
through the entire Intervening period (excepting a year and a 
half spent in Europe), yet there is no one of the many who have 
been in my class-room whom I have loved and respected more 
than James P. Boyce." 

We begin now to find letters from the young student to 
his friend and future brother-in-law, H. A. Tupper, of 
Charleston. They are at first chiefly occupied with mat- 
ters pertaining to their young friends in that city, and 
the experiences of a beginner at Brown, together with 



40 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

plenty of the gay badinage which is natural in the inter- 
course of young fellows at the age of seventeen or eighteen. 
It will he remembered that Boyce had excelled in mathe- 
matics during his Charleston studies, but here he found 
that this branch was completed within the Sophomore year. 
His father urged him to enter Junior, if possible, — wishing 
him to begin promptly the study of law; but he had done 
nothing in analytical geometry, and a letter tells of the 
severe and desperate exertions he made to work up this 
subject in time for the entrance examination, sometimes 
tempted to give it up as too difficult a task, but finally 
knowing every proposition Professor Caswell called for. A 
month after the session began, we meet something of a new 
student's usual summary and sharp judgment of one or 
another professor. Some young man had said in Charles- 
ton that the students at Brown were not gentlemen ; but 
Boyce finds it far otherwise. *^ There are some as noble- 
hearted fellows here as you would find anywhere ; only one 
or two in college with whom I would not wish to associate, 
and these are gentlemen's sons, though not themselves 
what I call gentlemen.'' This favorable judgment came 
from one who through life was extremely sensitive to 
every point of propriety and honor. In another letter he 
says it was reported that to a student who had greatly 
misbehaved. Dr. Wayland said, *'My son, go home; and if 
you can make anything of yourself, do try and do so." 
Boyce thought this a fine combination of paternal kindness 
and strict discipline. 

Catalogues show that at this period the Junior class 
studied Physics, Chemistry, and Physiology, something in 
Greek and Latin poetry. Modern Languages (in Boyce's 
case the Erench, which he acquired in a very short time 
and through life read with great ease). Logic (which 
brought him in contact with President Wayland), and 
Modern History, in Smythe's Lectures, — a book to which 
he not unfrequently referred in after life. Our student 



AT BROWN UNIVERSITY. 41 

soon begins to glorify his literary society, the United 
Brothers, which has most of the Southern students, and in 
general the best men of the Uniyersity, admitting a few 
exceptions. Did n't we all talk so, especially during the 
first session, about ^^ our society " ? He supposes his 
friend has ''heard of the secret societies which are gen- 
erally attached to the Korthem colleges; " and mentions 
in confidence that he has just been initiated into one of 
them, the Delta Phi. He thinks these societies are some- 
thing similar to the Odd Fellows and Masons, though 
held for different purposes. It is believed that the col- 
lege secret societies were at that time just beginning their 
somewhat checkered career. In one letter he gives some 
account of the Senior speaking, saying that S. S. Cox was 
the best, having ^ in reality a splendid piece. He is by far 
the best writer of his class. His speech was well written, 
well delivered, and was filled with some of the most 
splendid imagery." One can't help wondering whether 
already the imagery included a gorgeous "sunset," such 
as afterwards gave to the admired statesman his familiar 
sobriquet. 

College students are not at the time fully aware to what 
an extent they are influencing each other, intellectually 
and morally. Yet every one who looks thoughtfully back 
upon his own life when prolonged, and around upon cur- 
rent and recorded examples, will be likely to perceive that 
a young man's fellownatudents are hardly less important to 
him than his instructors. Even the memory and fame of 
those who studied there in other days, and have since 
achieved something honorable in the world, becomes to 
susceptible young minds a powerful incentive. There is 
thus great advantage in attending an institution which 
has a large number of students, gathered from far and 
wide, and possesses an inspiring list of distinguished 
alumni. 

The glimpses we catch of James Boyce in his association 



42 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

with fellow-students at Brown, reveal the same character 
and disposition we have heretofore observed. Dr. J. H. 
Luther, in an address after Boyce's death, speaiks *as 
follows ; — 

'' Little did we once think that the central figure of a group 
that nightly met in a well-fumished room in University Hall 
would be chosen of God to be a leader in theological thought , 
and the founder of a school of the prophets. That group was 
composed of noble spirits, — Stoddard, Ellis, Robert, Gamsey, — 
not one then a professor of religioD ; but they were all true gen- 
tlemen. A happier set of fellows I have never met since. They 
enjoyed the good will of their professors, and the respect of the 
entire class. But ' Jim ' was the leading spirit. There was a 
magnetism in his humor, a nobility in his presence, and a 
manly expression in his language, which made him attractive 
to all. Blessed with a generous allowance from his father, he 
took a lively pleasure in helping a poor student to bridge over 
a crisis in his college course ; and when he had once made a gift, 
he would never suffer the recipient to return it." 

It is remembered that at the end of a session, when 
James submitted a statement of the year's expenditures, 
his father expressed some surprise at the gift of a large 
sum to a fellow-student, and was evidently inclined to dis- 
approve. But one of his daughters said, **You know,. 
Father, that if James had spent it in buying a horse or the 
like, you would not have objected." And so the matter 
was dropped. 

At the approach of Christmas vacation, Boyce was sent 
as ambassador to Dr. Wayland, and obtained leave for the 
Southern students, who could not go home, to continue oc- 
cupying their rooms, and get their meals down town. He 
had thought of going to Boston; but it was '^ so tremen- 
dously cold that were I in Boston I hardly believe I 'd 
budge a foot from my lodgings." Students from the far 
South of course felt the difference of climate. 

In March, 1846, he lets his correspondent know that he 



I 



AT BROWN UNIVEBSITT. 43 



has beeD chosen to take part in the Junior ^Making, by an 
amusing extiairagance of complaint as to a professor *s cor- 
rections of his address: '^Confound it all, here hare I 
been called away just at this moment by the old prof., 
to examine my exhibition piece; and as a matter of course 
have more work to do. But wait, I will tell you when I 

come back As I thought, more coirections, dubita- 

tionsy and scratchations (if I may manufacture a word), 
than I would have thought it possible for one man to make 
in a year, and he has had it but a day and a half. Alas, 
alas, wretched being that I am ! These confounded profs, 
are the hardest to please. If you don't curse, they tell 
you your piece is too tame; if you do, they tell you it is 
profane. It is absolutely impossible to tell what they do 
want. Now, here I have one half my piece to write over, 
and the whole to copy over, just for those inquisitive 
women who must be coming up here to see us make 
fools of ourselves. Oh, how I wish they were all sunk 
in the bottom of the sea!" He is evidently proud of 
the distinction, and extremely anxious to please both 
the professors and the rather dreaded audience from the 
city. The little outburst reveals a lively and exuberant 
nature. 

We come now to a highly important event in James P. 
Boyce's life, — his conversion to Christ. It is known that 
Dr. Wayland earnestly longed and labored for the conver- 
sion of all his students, and often greatly impressed them 
by private conversations as well as public addresses and 
sermons. In this he was seconded by other professors and 
by devout students. The class to which Boyce belonged 
contained up to its Junior year many who were not Chris- 
tians. In 1889 Dr. B. A. Guild, the librarian, published 
in the ** Watchman " a series of articles entitled ** Revi- 
vals in Brown University," from one of which we extract. 
It is stated that many students below the Senior Class of 
1846 were not professors of religion. 




Inland, who in his 

lubject, aud urgeJ 

prayer aud special 

prayer aod eou- 

I ere were several 

^gru Boyce, whose 

:Uy throughout the 

ICbarlestun College. 

,ud the beir-pre- 

richest tnaD in 

leeply interested in 

of special prayer, 

be consecrated to 

« thus interested 

especially, whom, 

aod another, 

missionary history 

'lliraday in Febrnary 

by the students 

six deeply interested. 

Dr. Wayland, who 

lyDr. Caswell, who 

'.ge, and dwelt upon 

ifesBor Gammell en- 

ipiritual natures as 

In the afternoon, 

^■ptical discourse, ad- 

T^a^K after this occurred 

d^ind Boyce went at 

""Charleston. The 

1, and eKtremely 

it his state-room a 

novel or the 

ig the Bible. 

before arriving at 

ition of sin. We 



AT BROWN UNIVERSITY. 45 

learn incidentally from a subsequent letter that some two 
years before this hie had been a good deal moved, but the 
feeling had passed away. On reaching the city they were 
met by the news that their friend H*. A. Tupper had just 
been received into the church, and that one of Boyce's 
sisters was deeply concerned. That wonderful preacher, 
Dr. Kichard Fuller, had come from Beaufort, and was 
preaching every day, and a mighty religious movement 
was pervading the community. The appeals of Allen 
Tupper to James and his sister deepened his impressions. 
This sister, on the occasion of Dr. Boyce's funeral, recalled 
an expression used at the time in regard to her brother, 
which shows his high reputation for morality, and her 
imperfect conception at that time of the nature of the 
Gospel. She said, ''But James has not been so bad as 
the rest of us." He, however, felt himself a ruined sin- 
ner, and, like the rest, had to look to the merits of Christ 
alone for salvation. On the 22d of April he was bap- 
tized, Dr. Fuller's meetings being still in progress. The 
Charleston pastor at this time (1845-1847) was N. M. 
Crawford, from Georgia, who afterwards became quite dis- 
tinguished as a college professor and president. Let us 
pause to notice that young James Boyce had thus, by the 
age of nineteen, been brought under the special influence 
of six of the most notable Baptist ministers in America, — 
Manly andBrantly, Tucker, Wayland, Crawford, and Fuller. 
Writing from Brown University on May 15, Mr. Boyce 
speaks with great interest of the previous Sunday, which 
he and Mendenhall spent in Philadelphia on their way 
back. They attended in the morning Dr. Ide's church, 
and heard from some visiting minister ''a most excellent 
sermon," which is reported at considerable length. At 
the afternoon observance of the Lord's Supper — 

" We spent a delightfully solemn hour in commemorating the 
death of our Redeemer. It seemed so delightful thus among 
strangers to join in recalling that event which makes us brothers 



46 M£MOIB OF JAMES P. BOYCE. . 

and siatere. As I looked around I was almost ready to go np and 
speak with those around me as to our hopes of meeting in heaven. 
I am sorry now that I did not 5 I think it would have been better 
for me if I had done so/' 

The letter continues : — 

" There has been no revival here. The woik has been going 
on among a great number of the colleges, but we have none here. 
Pray for us, Allen, pray for us ; pray that God may shower down 
his Spirit among us, and bring sinners to repentance. There is a 
strong feeling among those of the college who have professed 
Christ, and they I believe are praying earnestly for a revival. 
But what though we pray forever, and use no means of exhorta- 
tion, can we expect our prayers to be answered! Surely not; and 
yet that is just our case. . . . The members of the First Baptist 
Church are interested for us. They have a prayer-meeting every 
morning from eight to half-past eight o'clock, and at two o'clock 
on Sundays ; and whUe praying for the youth of the church they 
are also kind enough to remember us, and to offer np prayers for 
a revival here. I hope their prayers may be answered ; I am sure 
they are needed." 

The letter concludes with loving messages and exhorta- 
tions to the recent converts in Charleston. 

With this letter accords the further narrative of Dr. 
Guild: **He returned to college a changed man. He 
at once joined the religious society, and with characteristic 
energy and zeal engaged in efforts to promote a revival, of 
which his conversion may be regarded as the beginning." 
His subsequent letters show similar fervor and zeal. He 
proposes to join by letter the First Church, and begins to 
teach a class in the Sunday-school. He is glad to hear 
that his correspondent has decided to be a minister. He 
speaks with much interest of some devotional tracts and 
books he has been reading, and of the Foreign Mission 
Journal just started by the F. M. Board of the Southern 
Baptist Convention at Bichmond. He tells of a serious 
fellow-student, reared under Unitarian influences, whom 



AT BROWN UNIVERSITY. 47 

by prayerful effort he has convinced of the divinity of 
Christ, and the need of atonement. An address was given 
at Brown just before the close of the session by J. L. 
Shuck, a missionary to China, — now connected with the 
Southern Board, — and made quite an impression. 

" Those who are accustomed to call all nations barbarian and 
ignorant except some two or three, Mr. Shuck's remarks must 
astonish. To those also who put education before Christianity as 
a means of civilization, what a lesson must his account furnish I 
To think that a nation should be so literary, should have ad- 
vanced so far in the arts and sciences, and yet present such a 
picture of degradation in morals ! . . • I only wish there were 
more to go to carry the news of salvation to the ends of the world. 
J am rejoiced to hear of the efforts being made in Charleston for 
the cause of missions." 

In the summer vacation (1846) he made a long trip 
for recreation and improvement. The letters speak with 
enthusiasm of the Catskill Mountains and of Niagara. 
Prom Montreal he returned by Lake Champlain and the 
Hudson steamer. Before railways made us so eager for 
speed, the great river-steamers probably afforded the most 
delightful mode of travel ever known on earth. 

Mr. Boyce's Senior year (1846-1847) demanded closer 
work than he had ever before known. The Senior class gave 
some time to Plato, and studied astronomy and geology, 
continuing also the modern history, but devoted its prin- 
cipal attention to intellectual and moral philosophy, with 
Christian Evidences and Butler's " Analogy," and to rhetoric 
and political economy, and the American Constitution. 
In this year he was brought constantly in contact with Dr. 
Wayland, and received from him those lasting and power- 
ful impressions which have been already mentioned. 
With subjects so congenial and a teacher of such power he 
was stimulated to great exertions. He also took a very 
large share in the religious interest which had come over 



48 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

from the former session, and was now deepening. He 
taught a Sunday-school class with regularity, and found 
time for a good deal of devotional reading, as appears from 
the books recommended in his letters. 

Besides the correspondence with Mr. Tupper, he cor- 
responded with Miss Mendeuhall, of Charleston (now Mrs. 
Scott), a friend of the family, and whose brother James 
was his fellow-student and room-mate ; and he was of course 
much interested in the accounts she gave of all that was 
going on in the city he loved so well. One of his letters 
has been preserved, written Dec. 11, 1846, when James 
Mendenhall had returned home for a time on account of 
some trouble with his eyes. She had informed Boyce of a 
visit to Charleston by two j^oung ladies. So he overflows 
with gratitude at the outset : — 

*^ I can hardly express the pleasure I experienced at receiving 
your letter. The fondest hopes I had dared to entertain were that 
Jimmy would now and then favor me with a paper. But when 
in the place of a paper there comes a letter full of news, and every- 
thing pleasing, you cannot imagine my pleasure. You write me 

that is in Charleston, and also . This is news ; I had not 

heard of it before. Pray remember me to my old sweetheart, and 
tell her I regret that T am not now at home, that I might do the 

honors of the house. I suppose is as lively as ever. I often 

look back upon the pleasant days I have spent in her company,— 
days which will never be forgotten so long as I have the power of 
memory, or of experiencing pleasure in the events it brings to 

mind. Do remember me to ; tell her I often think of her, 

and that it is by no means seldom that my prayers ascend to God 
for his blessings upon her and hers." 

He then sends an imploring and vehement entreaty that 
she will use all possible influence for the salvation of one 
of his near relatives, and ends the paragraph by saying : 

it Pear ^ Qod bless her ! She has ever reminded me of my 

mother. May she be as faithful a Christian, and be preserved to 
eternity I 



AT BROWN UNIVERSITY. 49 

" Another term has closed, and the Senior class now rest upon 
their well-earned laurels. Not a single man has been unsustained 
in a single study. During the whole of yesterday a blaze of 
glory surrounded as with a halo the members of our venerable 
class. Symptoms of gratification ever and anon broke forth from 
the examining committee and strangers present while we pro- 
ceeded in stately dignity to enlighten their ideas, and teach their 
withering minds to blossom with new vigor. Tell Jimmy, would 
for his sake I could say the same for the Juniors ! With their 
usual luck, they came out with two unsustained, both in rhetoric. 
All the Sophs and all the Freshmen were sustained. 

" The students are mostly all gone. A few of us retain our 
rooms during the vacation. This morning I laid out as the busi- 
ness of the day the mending of my carpet^ (no small job, I assure 
you, and so can Jimmy) and the writing of two letters, — this 
for the morning, and the arranging of my books for the afternoon. 
All this, I am happy to say, will be accomplished. Tell Jimmy 
that I am going to board at the eating-houses. However, to-day 
we will have a private dinner, — that is, Mabbitt and I will ; 
Mabbitt is cook, and I am to help him eat. 

" We had a heavy fall of snow last night, and the snow now 
lies some ten or twelve inches deep. This afternoon and to-mor- 
row we shall have fine sleighing. Don't you wish you were 
here? 

" I expect to study pretty hard this vacation. I have laid out 
about three or four thousand pages to read. First there is Plato ; 
then MilPs Logic ; then the Republic of Letters ; while on the 

1 His skill with the needle was well known to his friends. When 
a small boy he went to a dame's school and learned to sew, becoming soon 
80 proficient as to make a complete outfit for liis little sister's doll. In 
after years he would tell his children of this with great glee, explaining 
that he made ** leg of mutton ** sleeves for the doll in imitation of what 
he saw worn by the young ladies. Once, when he was President of the 
Southerd Baptist Convention, a brother had the misfortune to tear his 
pantaloons ; and various gentlemen, dropping in at the President's room 
in the hotel, were much amused to find him mending the rent. The 
owner — whose name has not been kept in memory — differed with Dr. 
Boyce on some theological points ; and upon warmly thanking him, 

received the good-humored reply, **Ah, Brother , I only wish 

I could mend your theology as easily." 

4 



50 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

moral and religious side come Wayland's DiscourseSi Milton's 
Paradise Lost, Banyan's Pilgrim's Progress, interspersed with 
other books occasionally. So you see I have my hands full." 

He proceeds to narrate at length how two students had 
been recently expelled, and then taken back. One of 
these^ who became a famous Baptist minister^ was expelled 
for lecturing on temperance during study hours. The 
other was expelled for striking a student during the rush 
for library books. By the intercession of one of the pro- 
fessors, both were restored. It is evident that the young 
Southerner relates with considerable gusto the circum- 
stances of this personal rencontre ; but it has to be admitted 
that the parties concerned were both from New England. 
The letter ends : — 

" I suppose ere I receive your answer, Christmas, with its 
eventfnl times, will have passed. Would that I were home on 
that day ! " 

Even in this lively letter of the gay young student to 
a lady friend we see that his religious earnestness shows 
itself. In letters to Mr. Tupper, during the early part of 
1847, he is full of devout fervor, and longing for the sal- 
vation of friends, both in college and at home. On March 
5 he says that for five or six weeks he has been greatly 
occupied and deeply impressed. A revival has now begun 
in the college, and there are three converts, including two 
of his special friends. " Everything seems to indicate a 
great work about to be accomplished. '' Near the close of 
the spring term he tells that the revival has made a great 
change in the moral tone of the college, putting an end to 
profanity and other forms of irreverence. 

*' There was not a particle of excitement. Not a single man, 
as far as my knowledge extended, seems to have been converted 
under excitement. Many, I know, took works on the Evidences of 
Christianity, and, reading with a determination to learn the truth^ 



AT BROWN XJNIVEBSITY 51 

were convicted of their sins, and taught to cry out, ' What shall 
I do to be saved f ' Several, myself among the number, who had 
unconverted room-mates, have been gratified by seeing them 
turn to the Saviour. Two or three who had been brought up in 
the doctrines of Universalism were convinced that these were un- 
scriptural and absurd, and taught to look to Jesus as the author 
and finisher of our faith. Nor do we expect it to end here ; we 
are determined, with the aid of God's Spirit, to continue this work 
during the next term, and not to rest until not a soul can be found 
here who has not felt and known the pardoning grace of God. 
Many of those who have recently become converted will labor 
among their impenitent friends at home, and return, we trust, 
strengthened in the faith of Jesus Christ. Never have I felt until 
this revival what a blessed privilege it is to save a soul. May 
my prayer evermore be to God that he may make me instrumental 
in his hands in the salvation of many I It is indeed a glorious and 
blessed privilege to labor in the vineyard of my Master." 

Dr. Guild tells us that the revival went on throughout 
the session, with much earnest prayer and effort on the 
part of devout students, and constantly fostered by the 
conversations and discourses of President Way land. Be- 
fore the close of Boyce's Senior year the converts included 
George P. Fisher, James B. Angell, H. L. Wayland, 
Kowland Hazard, and in all twenty-seven of the students. 
Probably few people consider bow much a revival at a col- 
lege may amount to. Among these quiet but bright-eyed 
young men there are almost sure to be some who will be a 
great power in tbe land. Not only on set days, but often, 
in public and in private, ought Christians to pray for 
those who teach and those who learn in colleges and uni- 
versities, in theological seminaries, and all educational 
institutions. 

The spring vacation (1847) was spent by Mr. Boyce as 
the guest of his room-mate, Adin B. Underwood (after- 
wards General Underwood), at Milford, Mass. Writing 
to Mr. Tupper from Milford, on April 17, he refers to 
the i^ioaching Commencement, saying th^it the Senior 



52 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

class is reputed ' the very best that has ever graduated 
at Brown, and speaking of a subject for the Commence- 
ment address, of which he has been thinking. In a 
postscript to this letter comes an important statement, 
for which an extract from a former letter has pre- 
pared us: '^I believe I have never told you Iny inten- 
tion to study for the ministry. I will tell you all 
about it another time/' Two weeks later he writes: 
"As to my profession, I think at present that I shall 
study for the ministry. That seems to me the only sub- 
ject in which I could have any interest; and it seems to 
me a theme so glorious, and one so much needed by man- 
kind, that I should love to proclaim it." In June we find 
that he has written to his father about his desire to be a 
minister, and to study at some theological school. His 
father suggested that he should wait till he comes home. 
He is now hesitating whether first to spend a year in gen- 
eral reading (as a resident graduate at Brown, or at home 
in Charleston), or to go next fall to a theological seminary. 
August 2 he writes from Kew York that he has been sick 
some days, and is barely able to sit up. He was doubt- 
less broken down by the hard study of the session, accom- 
panied by intense religious zeal and effort. Later we 
learn that his grade was seven (in a class of thirty-four) ; 
he had hoped to be fifth. The Commencement would 
occur in September, and his graduating address was to be 
on "International Charity, a New Thing in the Civiliza- 
tion of the World.'' 

When Boyce returned home after being graduated at 
Brown in September, 1847, it became increasingly mani- 
fest to those who knew him well, not only that he was 
thoroughly earnest in the religious life, but that he was 
developing great intellectual power. His mind was full 
of questions which he was anxious to have solved. On 
one occasion, in company with Allen Tupper, he ap- 
proached a distinguished divine at Charleston, and im- 



AT BROWN UNIVERSITY. 53 

mediately after the exchange of salutations the minister 
said, '*I am very glad to see you, James; but please do 
not ask me any hard questions." He was equally pleased 
to have hard questions asked him. He delighted to un- 
ravel any knotty matter, whether a conundrum, a philo- 
sophic paradox, or a social difficulty. He would be merry 
in positions wherein others were perplexed. His father, 
as we are told, was now very proud of James, and expected 
him to become a man of distinction. The young man, for 
his part, was burning with ambition for profound scholar- 
ship and the widest possible mastery of knowledge. One 
indication of this was in the character as well as number 
of the books he began at once to procure, at large cost. 
He was laying a broad foundation for life-long acquisition. 
While circumstances, during the greater part of his sub- 
sequent life, largely denied him the benefit of studious 
quiet, he did become a very remarkable combination of 
scholar and business man, such as onfe rarely sees. But 
his youthful ambition for vast attainments and profound 
scholarship was sadly hindered and thwarted throughout 
his busy years ; and those who loved him best will appre- 
ciate the statement of Dr. Tupper, made from personal 
knowledge, that Boyce regarded this as the greatest 
sacrifice he made for the theological seminary. 

It was a sad disappointment to Mr. Ker Boyce when 
he found, during the summer and autumn, that James was 
immovably resolved to be a minister. Besides a natural 
ambition that his son might become distinguished as a 
lawyer, and perhaps as a statesman, — for both of which 
pursuits the father's insight discerned in him peculiar 
qualifications, — he began already to hope, as wo have 
heretofore observed, that James would be the man to take 
charge of his large estate, and carry on his great business 
undertakings, for the benefit of the whole family. While 
a strictly moral man, and a generous supporter of the 
church he attended, the father had no great sympathy with 



54 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

the claims of the ministry;^ and, as in many other such 
cases, it was hard for him to acquiesce in the youth's de- 
termination to ''throw away" all his practical powers and 
possibilities upon the work of a minister. There were of 
course others who took a similar viSw. His namesake Mr. 
Petigru said, "What a lawyer he would hare made!" 
We hear of an old merchant in Charleston, one of his 
father's partners in the dry-goods house, who, being told 
that Jimmy Boyce meant to be a parson, said, '* Well, 
well, why don't he follow some useful occupation ? If he 
would only have stuck to business, he would have made 
one of the best merchants in the country." Young men 
of no remarkable talents or worldly advantages often have 
to pass through similar opposition and reproach in enter- 
ing upon the ministry of the gospel. A surviving sister 
testifies that their father was already proud of James's 
talents, and became so more and more ; and we shall find 
him gladly affording every possible advantage for the 
prosecution of ministerial studies. 

On the 14th of November, 1847, H. Allen Tupper and 
James P. Boyce were licensed to preach by the church in 
Charleston. Two weeks earlier, Boyce had written to his 
friend from Aiken, the summer home of the family, where 
he was teaching his young brother Kerr, preparing him 
for boarding-school. In this letter he greatly laments his 
decay of spirituality. When he offers a prayer, it " often 
seems to be the discord of the lips, and not the music of 
the heart." A fortnight after the licensing he writes 
again, *^ Rejoice with me, for my joy now is not exceeded 
by that which I felt when I first entered on Christ's de- 
lightful service." Such changes of feeling are neither rare 
nor strange. He was already beginning to preach on 
Sundays, and writing some articles for the South Carolina 
Baptist. 



MAHjRIAGE AND EDITORIAL WORK. 55 



CHAPTER V. 

MARRIAGE AND EDITORIAL WORK. 

AMOKG James Boyce's classmates at Brown Univer- 
sity, and for a while his room-mate, was Milton 
G. Robert, of Robertville, S. C, belonging to a family 
which has produced several distinguished Baptists. In 
visiting his brother, Rev. L. J. Robert, pastor at Wash- 
ington, Ga., this young man made a marriage engagement 
with Miss Colby, of that place, and he still lives in 
the vicinity. After their graduation he took James P. 
Boyce with him to Washington, as one of the ''waiters " 
at the wedding, Dec. 9, 1847. One of the bride's attend- 
ants, though not his partner, was Miss Lizzie Llewellyn 
Ficklen, daughter of Dr. Fielding Ficklen, of that village. 
It is related by a resident that the young man became 
quite enamoured that evening. The next day, when the 
wedding party were going into the country to dine, he was 
reproached by the bridegroom for asking to accompany 
Miss Ficklen instead of his partner. Things went so fast 
with his feelings that in returning from the country din- 
ner he asked her to marry him, but without success. In 
fact, it cost the ardent youth several months of repeated 
visits, to say nothing of numerous letters, before he could 
gain any promise of marriage. 

Dr. Ficklen had come from Virginia, where his brother, 
George Ficklen, was an eminent citizen and leading Bap- 
tist of the famous Gourd Vine Church, in Culpeper County, 
and another brother, Burwell Ficklen, was an honored 
citizen of Fredericksburg; while the family connection in- 
cludes a number of well-known men in different parts of 



56 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCB. 

that State. The Ficklens were of Welsh origin^ and one 
fancies that they exhibit some of the better Celtic traits 
of character. Dr. Ficklen's wife was Miss Frances Ann 
Wingfield, whose grandfather came from Albemarle 
County, Va., the name showing an English family. 
The doctor did not give his whole attention to the practice 
of medicine in Washington, but turned more and more 
towards planting, in which he was quite successful. In 
middle life he became a Christian, and afterwards a 
greatly honored deacon of the Baptist church in Washing- 
ton, — a man of frank and manly bearing, " transparent can- 
dor, scrupulous conscientiousness, and Christian probity," 
and notably strict in his ideas of Christian life and of 
church discipline. Miss Lizzie had been educated in a 
very remarkable school at Washington, which had been 
built up especially through the efforts of Adam Alexander 
(father of the Confederate general, now railroad presi- 
dent), whose numerous daughters, there educated, became 
the wives of distinguished men in Georgia and South 
Carolina. The lady principal at the time when Lizzie was 
educated was Miss Bracket, who had come from the 
North, and afterwards married Dr. Nehemiah Adams, a 
well-known Congregational minister of Boston. 

Washington is a pleasant village in Northeastern 
Georgia, eighteen miles north of the Georgia Railroad, and 
not far from the South Carolina Ijne. It is the centre of 
a rolling and healthy country, which the Wingfields com- 
pared to Albemarle, very fertile in grain and cotton. 
Here the famous Jesse Mercer was the first Baptist pas- 
tor, and started here, in 1833, *'The Christian Index," 
which is still the Baptist paper of Georgia. Here lived 
the celebrated Senator Robert Toombs, and Alexander H. 
Stephens went to school here, — in a square wooden build- 
ing which still stands, — but made the home of his life at 
Crawfordsville, in an adjoining county. Thus the village 
and surrounding country presented good society as well as 






MARRIAGE AND EDITORIAL WORK. 57 

good schools. To these advantages of family and educa- 
tion were added rare personal attractions, great kindness 
of heart, and extraordinary brilliancy in conversation; so 
that our young collegian, with all his ardor, may be de- 
fended as not having lost his head when he so quickly 
lost his heart. 

We cannot venture to quote the letters written to 
his friend and future brother-in law during the next 
few months. On one occasion whole pages are filled 
with outpourings of a lover's wretchedness when rejected, 
but winding up with the steadfast purpose to try again. 
A loving sister brings to bear upon the case a certain 
feminine clairvoyance, and comforts him with the hope 
that he may succeed at last. Then the correspondence 
fails us, as a well-behaved correspondence should do; but 
in May we learn, from an allusion to plans for the future, 
that an understanding has been reached, and definite 
hopes are permitted. 

In April, 1848, Mr. Boyce and Mr. Tupper went to 
New York, on their way to Madison University, at Ham- 
ilton, N. Y., — now called Colgate University, — for the 
purpose of entering the theological department. After 
arriving in New York city, they heard from Dr. T. J. 
Conant, then Professor of Hebrew at Hamilton, that three 
months of Hebrew had to be made up in about three 
weeks, in order to enter the theological course at the 
point they desired. Mr. Tupper accomplished this, and 
went through the course at Hamilton. Mr. Boyce found 
his eyes so weak and suffering at the time that it was 
evidently unwise to attempt the Hebrew. On April 28 
he wrote from New York to his friend at Hamilton a very 
sad letter. The celebrated Dr. Delafield had ordered that 
he should stop study for a year, and advised that he 
should abandon altogether the idea of a studious life. 
**I shall therefore adopt the latter advice. I regret 
much that we cannot pursue our studies together, but 



08 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

more that I am compelled to give up - that profession 
towards which I have so long looked. I shall return 
to-morrow week to Charleston." A week later he writes 
again that he is not going to give up the study for the 
ministry. The physician thinks that by leading a very 
active life during the summer, together with certain med- 
ical treatment; he may recover the use of his eyes for 
study. The doctor has said that a trip to Europe would 
of itself be sufficient to cure him. But he shrinks from 
making this journey without a certain companionship, on 
which he may not count. 

We learn from others that his return voyage to Charles- 
ton wa« protracted by bad weather; and through the con- 
sequent nautical experiences he was relieved of extreme 
biliousness, and this contributed to the cure of his eyes. 
Throughout the summer he found it necessary to be care- 
ful, but his eyes finally recovered strength. He often 
suffered through life from severe bilious attacks, but we 
never again hear of any trouble with the eyes, though he 
read so widely, at all hours, on railway trains and every- 
where. A like trouble from study at college led Bichard 
H. Dana, Jr., to a voyage to California in 1834-1836, 
described in his famous book, *'Two Years before the 
Mast; " and the biographer states that he also never 
afterwards suffered from weak eyes. 

In the autumn we find Mr. Boyce in much better health, 
and preaching with great zeal at Aiken, at Washington, 
Ga., and other points, and at length undertaking impor- 
tant duties in Charleston, to which we shall presently 
give attention. The marriage occurred at Washington, 
Dec. 20, 1848, and the young couple went at once to live 
in Charleston. But he delighted in visiting the pleasant 
village where he had found his wife, and easily made 
himself a place in the family circle. Some time after her 
marriage the bride told his sister, in her sportive way, 
that her mother always took sides with James rather than 



MARRIAGE AKD EDITORIAL WORK. 69 

with her. So glad he was to have a mother again! In 
one of the subsequent visits, it is stated by Oapt. J. T. 
Wingfield, Mrs. Boyce's cousin, that the young minister 
preached, at the time when he was ordained deacon, a ser- 
mon an hour and a half long, which the captain quaintly 
declares to have been ''the shortest long sermon" he 
ever heard. Some years later, Mr. Boyce's brother-in- 
law. Rev. H. A. Tupper, became pastor at Washington, 
and remained there nearly twenty years, taking great 
delight in his charge, and resisting many invitations to 
go elsewhere.* 

^ The following was published not long ago in the ** Washington 
[Ga.] Gazette : " — 

** GENEKAL LAWTON AND WASHINGTON. 

** The unforeseen oonseqnences of our actions are often the subject 
of comment. On a November day of 1845, Gen. A. R. Lawton came 
to Washington on a very interesting occasion ; namely, to be married. 
He doubtless felt very pleasantly disposed to the little up-country town 
in which he found his wife. On one of his trips he was accompanied 
by a bachelor friend, Mr. Milton Robert^ who fell in love with another 
Washington girl, and married her. There came to this wedding another 
bachelor, Rev. James P. Boyce. He, too, married a Washington girl. 
From these two marriages Washington has derived many advautagos 
besides the blessing of good husbands to her daughters. The childi*en 
and grandchildren sprung from them form a large circle of excellent 
and desirable citizens. But this was not all the good derived from 
General Lawton to. Washington. In consequence of the marriage of 
Rev. James P. Boyce, Dr. Tnpper, who married his sister, was invited 
here. The good Dr. Tupper did is untold. His influence on religion, 
and his thousand kindnesses, will never be forgotten while a single 
person remains who knew him. Now, General Lawton, though not the 
cause, was certainly the occasion, of all this good to Washington. . . . 
This is a good deal to owe to General Lawton ; and running it up, it 
seems as if we ought to present the general with a silver service. But 
it occurred to us just here that General Lawton owes a good deal to 
Washington, for the town furnished Mrs. Lawton. In detailing all 
this to the general, we asked him, did he not think he and Washington 
were even? *Yes,' he said, 'more than even. I owe Washington 



60 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

In May, 1846, there had appeared in Charleston **The 
Southern Baptist," a weekly paper which was contin- 
ued till the beginning of the War of Secession. For more 
than two years it was ** edited by a committee of brethren 
of the Baptist churches in Charleston." The pastors 
of the First Baptist Church at that period were the 
famous Georgian, Dr. N. M. Crawford, from 1845 to 1847, 
and from 1847 to 1854 Dr. J. R. Kendrick, of the dis- 
tinguished Baptist family in New York State. No doubt 
each of these took an active part in the editing, and they 
were aided by James Tupper, Esq., a leading lawyer and 
Baptist, and others whose names are not known. On 
Nov. 22, 1848, the heading reads, ^' James P. Boyce, 
Editor." A notice of the change, signed "The late 
Editors," says: *^Mr. Boyce is a graduate of Brown 
University, a licentiate of the First Baptist Church in 
Charleston, and possesses qualities of mind and heart 
which give promise of distinction and usefulness in the 
new field of labor he has entered." The new editor's 
salutatory mentions that the paper has been going into 
three thousand families, thinks that in excellence " it 
has been surpassed by none of our Southern Baptist 
papers," and very earnestly asks for increased patronage 
and continued contributions. In fact, their high stand- 
ard of intelligence and taste had caused the brethren to 
make a better paper than could at that time be supported 
in a comparatively small State, where the great mass of 
the" Baptists were in the middle and up country, — and 
railroads did not then extend above Columbia. 

The young editor threw himself earnestly into the under- 
taking, and produced a paper of real value. To a much 
greater extent than was then common in religious week- 
lies, it is seen to have given copious and well-collated 

boot, — large boot.* And come to think of it, it was in fact Mrs. 
Lawton who brought the general here, and set the ball rolling in the 
first instance." 



MARRIAGE AND EDITORIAL WORK. 61 

newSy foreign and domestic, secular as well as religions. 
There are many notices of books and periodicals, with 
special interest in the four British Quarterlies, and ** Black- 
wood's Magazine," which were republished in this country 
by Leonard Scott & Co., and at that day represented the 
very cream of good reading. Many a young man of that 
period can remember the instruction and inspiration de- 
rived from these great British periodicals. Remarkable 
space is given in the paper to foreign missions, those of 
the Missionary Union in Boston, as well as those oiE the 
Southern Baptist Convention, organized three years before. 
No opportunity is missed for commending institutions of 
learning, or discussing questions of education. The edi- 
tor's writing consisted largely in brief paragraphs, such as 
have now become common in the best papers. Among the 
leading editorials, such general topics as "Purity of 
Heart," "Faith an Antidote to Trouble," "The Blessed- 
ness of Affliction, " are discussed in a readable and help- 
ful fashion. Under the head of "State Schools and 
Teachers," great earnestness is shown in urging improve- 
ment of public instruction. Under "Southern Baptist 
Literature," it is said: "We trust the day is not distant 
when Southern Baptists will be extensive producers as 
well as consumers of religious reading." Under "Mis- 
sions among the Southern Slaves " : "No planter, we con- 
tend, should rest satisfied until he has taken measures 
either to provide a religious instructor for his negroes, or 
to instruct them himself; " and favorable mention is made 
afterwards of the way in which this was managed by B. C. 
Pressley, Esq. (now Judge Pressley), on his plantation. 
An editorial in the first number for 1849 refers quite 
impressively to the European revolutions of the preceding 
year. On March 28, 1849, a leader of unusual length 
favored the establishment of a "Central Theological Insti- 
tution " for all Baptists of the South, — a subject which 
had been broached two or three years before, and with 



62 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. fiOYCE. 

which this Memoir must largely concern itself in later 
chapters. 

Meantime, on March 7, Rev. A. M. Poindexter, who 
had the previous summer come from Virginia to Charleston 
to be Corresponding Secretary of the new Southern Baptist 
Publication Society, gave the following notice in the 
paper: "The Depository of the S. B. P. S. has been 
removed to 40, Broad Street, and Rev. James P. Boyce 
has been appointed Depository Agent." From that time 
the advertising columns contain long lists of religious 
books as kept for sale at the depository, with his name as 
agent. The editor and incipient theologian found great 
delight in the intimate friendship thus begun with Dr. 
Poindexter, one of the strongest theological thinkers in 
the country, and destined to a highly influential co-opera- 
tion with him in the future establishment of the theolog- 
ical school. His own penchant for theology, even at this 
early period, appears in his allowing the paper to be for 
many weeks weighted down by two distinguished brethren 
with long and elaborate articles on the doctrine of ** Im- 
putation," in which comparatively few of the readers could 
be expected to take much interest. 

On April 11 the editor in three several instances 
defends himself against personal attack. The "Christian 
Index " had severely complained of the " Southern Bap- 
tist " for publishing a misleading account of action taken 
by the trustees of Mercer University in regard to the 
question of a general theological institution, and declared 
that statements given in quotation marks were utterly 
different from what had been actually said in the report 
of the trustees. Mr. Boyce replies: ^^ Strieturea of the 
* Christian Index.^ — We regret very much that errors such 
as the ^ Index ' notices in the piece quoted below should 
have been found in any article in the * Southern Baptist.' 
We copy the entire strictures of the * Index, ' purposely to 
manifest our regret. And yet we are not to blame.'' He 



MARRIAGE AND EDITORIAL WORK. 63 

goes on to explain that his account of the matter had heen 
derived from another paper, and the quotation-marks re- 
ferred to that paper's statements. The defence is ample, 
and the opening expression of regret is characteristic of 
a man so frank and candid. It is said that some one 
connected with the paper censured this expression, on the 
ground that a newspaper cannot well afford to admit that 
it has made a mistake. This idea does appear to he enter- 
tained in some editorial offices; but one can imagine that 
James P. Boyce must have been not a little vexed at the 
mere suggestion. Following this editorial is another, in 
reply to the criticisms of a correspondent. These had 
included an utter misstatement of something the editor 
had said, and he replied very sharply: ^^ We said no such 
thing; and how a man of common sense and common hon- 
esty can assert it, we know not. This may seem strong 
language, but • . . it is enough to irritate any man to 
have his language perverted in this way." A third edi- 
torial replies to an anonymous '^Subscriber" who grossly 
misrepresents the editor, and upon the strength of this 
misrepresentation announces that he will cease to be a 
subscriber when the time expires for which he has paid. 
The editor in reply tries to be calm in pointing out 
the misrepresentation, but adds : ** In conclusion, we 
say to a ' Subscriber ' that if he will but forward 
his name, it shall be immediately stricken from the 
list. We would not for ten times the sum of his sub- 
scription be again subjected to so much impertinence 
and injustice.^' 

The number for May 2d ends the third volume of the 
paper. The editor calls attentioii to that fact, and says : 
^*Our own connection with the paper is to close with the 
present number. We opened its editorial charge at the 
solicitation of our brethren, and with no expectation of 
retaining it beyond a few months. We feel a deep interest 
in the * Southern Baptist,' and the prosperity of the Bap- 



64 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

tists of South Carolina, and this interest alone induced us 
to consent to occupy our present post." He states that 
the former editing committee will resume their task, but 
that the paper is still in debt, and the receipts not sufficient 
to pay the expenses; and so he appeals for payment of 
subscriptions in arrear, and for efforts to procure new 
subscribers. In resuming the editorship, on May 9, the 
committee state that ** during five months the paper has 
been gratuitously and efficiently edited by Rev. James P. 
Boyce. " ^ In the editorial that follows they speak of the 
fact that editors must expect at times to have " their mo- 
tives misapprehended and rudely impugned, their honest 
opinions perverted and unkindly assailed.'^ This goes to 
show that the young editor had keenly felt the injustice 
done him, especially by the writers he had replied to on 
April 11. He was a man so thoroughly honest, candid, 
and just that he felt surprise at first, and then indigna- 
tion, at any cases in which the opposite qualities appeared 
to be manifested; and few men of twenty-two would have 
been quite patient under such provocation. Had he felt 
bound by some high sense of duty to pursue the editorial 
career, he would have learned to bear quietly such unjust 
assaults, even as he afterwards did learn in other relations 
that any servant of the public must expect to be now and 
then misrepresented, and to have some speech or action of 
his perverted and seized upon as the occasion for exploiting 
personal views. But Mr. Boyce had not at all undertaken 
to make editing his life-work. The discussion of religious 
topics would only deepen the desire for regular theological 
education, which he now determined to seek at Princeton 
in the autumn. The close of the paper's third year was a 
convenient time for ending his connection with it, and 
the recent assaults perhaps made him impatient to throw 

1 The number of subscribers had increased while he was editor, but 
the receipts had been five hundred dollars less than the expenses of 
publication. 



MARRIAGE AND EDITORIAL WORK. 65 

the task aside without delay. All this may remind us 
that truly great and useful men have seldom escaped early 
struggles with impatience, and have never been without 
strong feelings which it was difficult to control. A great 
man has an ardent nature, or he would not be a force in 
the world. Those who see men of eminence silently bear- 
ing undeserved reproach, or explaining with quiet dignity, 
frequently have little conception of the discipline which 
has been needed to make this possible. 

Por one so young, with little experience in preaching, 
and no regular study of theology, Mr. Boyce had done 
remarkably well as an editor. Had he thought proper to 
continue in that line of work, his great administrative 
talent, wide and eager reading, special interest in the 
practical enterprises of missions and education, and 
rapidity of composition, would sooner or later have made 
his editorial life a marked success. Years afterwards he 
more than once intimated that if the Seminary could be- 
come fully established and allow some leisure, he would 
like to conduct a religious quarterly or monthly. 

Until the end of July, 1849, he continued to act as 
depository agent for the Publication Society, and some- 
times wrote for the paper over his initials. 

During the summer he hesitated whether to take a theo- 
logical course at Hamilton, where Mr. Tupper was, or at 
Princeton. There was much talk at the time of removing 
the theological school from Hamilton to Rochester, and 
he did not fancy being there in a time of dissolution and 
reconstruction. He inquired particularly about the extent 
and value of the library at Hamilton, in which respect 
Princeton then doubtless greatly excelled. Few patrons of 
higher education appreciate the value of a great library 
in attracting the more aspiring students and in promoting 
breadth of culture. 

In April, 1849, Mr. Boyce's eldest brother, John John- 
ston Boyce, died in Florida. He had married his cousin, 

5 



66 MEMOIR OF JAMBS P. BOYCB. 

the daughter of Chancellor Johnston, His father had 
established him on a plantation in Florida, with the vague 
hope of stopping the ravages of consumption. An obituary 
in the paper which James was editing says that he died 
'< in the hope of a glorious resurrection.'' 






AT PRINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 67 



CHAPTER VI. 

AT PRINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY, 1849-1861. 

IN September, 1849, Mr. Boyce went to the Presby- 
terian Theological Seminary at Princeton, and re- 
mained there as a student for two years. This famous 
seminary had, like all the rest, its small beginnings. It 
was founded in 1812, and for one year Archibald Alexander 
was the sole professor. In 1813 Samuel Miller was added, 
and in 1822 Charles Hodge. By 1849 Princeton and An- 
dover were the two leading theological schools in America. 
The whole number of students during Mr. Boyce's first 
session was one hundred and thirty-six, and for the second 
session one hundred and forty-seven. The division of 
the Presbyterian Church into Old School and New School 
was by this time thoroughly established, and Princeton 
was recognized as the great bulwark of Old School 
theology. 

When our student entered, in 1849, Dr. Samuel Miller 
had just been made Emeritus Professor, and he died in 
January of the next year. His numerous practical writ- 
ings on ecclesiastical questions and ministerial duties 
must have been quite in demand among the students. 
The author of " Clerical Manners " was somewhat formal 
in his own deportment, but proved quite cordial when 
visited at his home. The active professors at this time 
were Dr. Archibald Alexander, his two sons, James and 
Addison, and Dr. Charles Hodge. 

Archibald Alexander had in 1840 turned over the 
department of Didactic Theology to Dr. Hodge, and was 
Professor of Pastoral and Polemic Theology. Though now 



68 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

seventy-seven years old, and taking but a limited part in 
the instruction, this gifted and charming man left a last- 
ing impress upon his students, and Mr. Boyce often spoke 
of him with gratitude and affection. He was a sort of 
pastor for the young men, with whom they found counsel 
and sympathy.^ His numerous works gained a wide circu- 
lation, and his *^ Moral Science," "Religious Experience," 
and *' Sermons to the Aged" may still be particularly 
commended. The memoir by his son James is a delight- 
ful book. Dr. Alexander excelled in the somewhat diffi- 
cult matter of helpful criticism upon sermons preached by 
the students before the class. His general kindness and 
sympathetic appreciation gave keener edge to the caustic 
remarks which sometimes appeared needful. Dr. Boyce 
used to relate that on one occasion a student took as his 
text, *'Let there be light, and there was light," and 
launched into a magnificent description of the creation of 
light, with great splendor of diction and vehemence of de- 
livery. The aged professor sat with his chin on his breast, 
quietly listening throughout the performance, and then, 
lifting his head, said, in the piping tones characteristic of 
old age, " You're a very smart young man, but you can't 
beat Moses." A few years earlier, a student of very im- 
posing talents and bearing, a Presbyterian then, but who 
afterwards became a High Churchman and a bishop, 
made a grand discourse upon the religious instincts. He 
represented that every man's character and life will depend 
simply upon which of his instincts gets the upper hand, 

1 It was probably at an earlier date that we must place a story which 
theological students might find suggestive. An old negro was accus- 
tomed to attend a church some miles from Princeton, and often praised 
the "high larnt" young preachers who came out from the seminary. 
One day he looked glum on returning home, and being asked whether 
he had had a good sermon, said, " No, sir; no, sir. There did n't none of 
them high larnt young gentlemen come to-day, but jes* a old man, and 
he stood up and jes* talked and talked." The preacher was Archibald 
Alexander. 



AT PRINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 69 

and everything human was made to turn on a battle of 
instincts. When he finished, and the time came for 
critical remarks by the students, they seemed afraid to 
venture, and were silent. Dr. Alexander simply said, 
" My instincts are not sufficient to comprehend, much 
less to criticise, that discourse." In these cases the 
severity was no doubt well deserved, and ought to have 
proved beneficial. But professors of homiletics, and even 
unofficial critics of preaching, doubtless often err, and 
sometimes gravely and hurtfully err, in bestowing their 
causticities as well as their commendations. 

Dr. James Waddell Alexander this year succeeded Dr. 
Miller as Professor of Ecclesiastical History and Church 
Government, and the next year took over from his father 
the subject of Composition and Delivery of Sermons. He 
resigned in 1851, and it was Boyce's singular good fortune 
to hear his only course of lectures on this latter topic, — the 
notes of which lectures the student always greatly valued. 
From 1851 to 1859 Dr. Alexander was pastor of the Fifth 
Avenue Presbyterian Church of New York city, which he 
did much to strengthen and train, and which, under the 
pastorate of Dr. John Hall, is now recognized as one of the 
leading churches of America. He published a large num- 
ber of popular and useful books, of which the *^ Sermons 
on Consolation," the biography of his father, and the 
*' Forty Years' Familiar Letters of J. W. Alexander," are 
of particular interest and value. His now venerable 
mother was the daughter of James Waddell, the ''blind 
preacher, " whom William Wirt heard in a church near 
Gordonsville, Va., and described in an often-quoted pas- 
sage of ''The British Spy." James's wife was also a 
Virginia lady, a sister of the famous medical professor. 
Dr. James L. Cabell, of the University of Virginia. 
Thesg two ladies naturally took a special interest in 
Southern students, and the elder once said that she knew 
the Baptist students better than the Presbyterian, because 



70 MEMOIB OF JAM£B P. BOTCE. 

they were more inclined to be soeiable. Her daughter and 
namesake^ Miss Janetta Alexander, is also remembered as 
particularly cordial and agreeable towards the wife of a 
student. 

The younger son. Dr. Joseph Addison Alexander, among 
the foremost of American Biblical scholars, was still Pro- 
fessor of Oriental and Biblical Literature, which two years 
later he gave up for Biblical and Ecclesiastical History. 
His great work on Isaiah had appeared in three parts in 
1846, 1847, and "The Psalms Translated and Explained" 
came out in 1850. Addison was by no means a patient 
teacher of the elements of Hebrew. He learned languages 
himself with marvellous facility, and could not sympathize 
with, or patiently endure, the slow mental movements of 
the ordinary student. One day, when some fellow had 
made a very bad out of his Hiphil forms of the verb, the 
professor threw down his Hebrew grammar on the table, 
and angrily said, '^ Gentlemen, I can't spend any more 
time on these elementary matters. Learn them for your- 
selves. I shall begin lecturing on Genesis to-morrow.'* 
For three years before this, his students had enjoyed the 
help of William Henry Green as instructor in Hebrew, 
who resigned that position in 1849, and in 1851 succeeded 
Dr. Alexander in the chair which he still occupies with 
so much honor. In 1850, when the professor had worked 
alone for one year, it was found advisable to appoint another 
instructor in Hebrew. It is somewhat frequently the case 
that a great linguistic or mathematical genius proves ill- 
suited to elementary instruction in the subjects he masters 
with such facility; and a teacher, in whatever department 
or grade, must constantly strive to maintain intellectual 
sympathy with his pupils. As a lecturer on exegesis. Dr. 
Alexander made a great impression. He did not teach the 
students how to make exegesis for themselves, but he set 
them a noble example, by his complete mastery of the 
requisite learning, his honest and unwearied pursuit of 



AT PRINCETON THEOLOGICAI, SEMINARY. 71 

truth, and tbe clear and cOnTincing fashion in which his 
results were stated. He was particularly fond, as his works 
also show, of reconciling antagonistic views, not simply hy 
the easy method of taking an intermediate position, hut 
often by rising to some higher principle, which compre- 
hended them both in its unity ;r and he would often startle 
by the felicity with which he converted objections to the 
truth into arguments for its support. A few years later, 
as Professor of Biblical and Ecclesiastical History, his 
course for the Junior class consisted really of lectures on 
the English Bible, and awakened great enthusiasm, so that 
Presbyterian pastors in Philadelphia would run out to 
Princeton to hear them, and students of that period have 
often dwelt upon their extraordinary interest. 

Dr. Chalmers had in his Lectures in Theology, a few 
years earlier, urged upon his students a thorough study of 
the English Bible. But these lectures by Alexander are 
the earliest known instance of making the English Bible the 
text-book on a large scale in a theological seminary, — a- 
plan afterwards much more extensively and systematically 
pursued in the Seminary which -James P. Boyce founded, 
and of late years beginning to be adopted in various 
institutions* In his last years, Addison Alexander 
published Commentaries on Acts, Mark, Matthew (chapter 
i.— xvi., interrupted by his death in 1860), which are 
admirable specimens of penetrating and judicious exposi- 
tion, and must long continue to be necessary to a minister's 
library. The memoir by his nephew. Dr. Henry C. Alexan- 
der, is a work full of inspiration for any minister or stu- 
dent for the ministry who values high scholarship, and 
appreciates rare and varied gifts. It is said that Princeton 
students were greatly impressed by Addison's occasional 
sermonS) and many of these have been collected in two 
volumes of great value. His intellectual power seizecl 
upon a truth with the most vigorous grasp, his imagina^ 
tion threw over it the chastened splendors of a genuine 



' 



72 MEMOm OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

illumination^ and bis wealth of choicest English fitted it- 
self to every phase of truth like a garment to him that 
wears it. A shy and recluse student, he was never a pas- 
tor, and was not widely known as a preacher; but others 
besides the students have testified that when inspired by 
some great theme he would at times read one of his noble 
discourses with overmastering and seldom-rivalled power. 
Dr. Hodge once said to Dr. J. W. Warder that Addison 
had the finest mind he had ever known. It may be a use- 
ful warning to add that this admirable man presumed on 
his always vigorous health, and devoted himself to in- 
cessant reading and writing, with an almost total neglect 
of exercise; and so, at the age of fifty, there came a sudden 
collapse, and the world lost all those other noble works 
which he might have been expected to produce, and which 
some of us were so eagerly awaiting. 

But the most influential of all Boyce's instructors at 
Princeton was Dr. Charles Hodge, now fifty-two years 
old, and at the height of his powers. A graduate of the 
seminary, and professor there since 1820, he had spent 
1826-1828 as a student in Paris and Germany. He had 
founded in 1825 the ''Biblical Repertory," afterwards 
called " Biblical Repertory and Princeton Review," which 
he was still editing, and which as a theological quarterly 
had no rival in America save the Andover "Bibliotheca 
Sacra." Two years before this he had collected from the 
review his two volumes of ''Princeton Theological Es- 
says," and much earlier (1835) had sent out his famous 
"Commentary on Romans," abridged in 1836, and en- 
larged in 1866. Other works had also appeared from his 
busy pen, including an excellent practical treatise called 
" The Way of Life." The Commentaries on Ephesians 
and on First and Second Corinthians came out some years 
later, and his magnum optcs, the " Systematic Theology, " 
three volumes 8vo, did not appear till 1871. But already 
in Boyce's time this great theological course was mainly 



AT PRINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 73 

developed, and laboriously dictated to the students. Dr. 
Hodge was a singularly clear and consecutive thinker. 
Dr. Manly remembered it as a saying of the students, 
**His thoughts move in rows." Even in the most fa- 
miliar address every thought would bring with it the 
related thoughts. In the Sunday afternoon meetings, 
when his turn came to speak upon the practical topic which 
had been chosen, he would first lead up to the subject, then 
discuss it, and finally draw inferences or lessons; and this 
not in the way of formality, but through the habit of his 
mind. He was also a man of marked Christian earnest- 
ness and fervor, with whom the great doctrines were living 
facts. James Boyce was more powerfully impressed by 
Dr. Hodge than by any other Princeton professor, and 
probably more than by any other teacher except President 
Waj^land. Dr. Manly also felt satisfied that he learned 
more from Hodge than any of the others. It was a great 
privilege to be directed and upborne by such a teacher in 
studying that exalted system of Pauline truth which is 
technically called Calvinism, which compels an earnest 
student to profound thinking, and, when pursued with a 
combination of systematic thought and fervent experience, 
makes him at home among the most inspiring and enno- 
bling views of God and of the universe he has made. 
Dr. Hodge was at this time in quite poor health, and 
suffered great and long-continued distress at the death of 
his wife, Dec. 25, 1849; but his work was faithfully done. 
We have thus seen that, except the lack of Dr. Green's 
help in Hebrew, our student was greatly favored in his 
Princeton professors. Hodge and Addison Alexander 
were at the height of their great powers. Archibald 
Alexander was still giving, in the class-room and in 
private, the fruits of his eminent gifts and rich experi- 
ence, and these were the last two years of his long life. 
James Alexander was an inspiring teacher and friend, 
and his professorial work was limited to Boyce's two 
years. 



74 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCB. 

His fellow-students also comprised a number of superior 
men. Among the fifty-two members of the entering class, 
even persons little acquainted with Presbyterian history 
can point out several who afterwards became distinguished. 
K. F. Bunting, D. D., was long pastor at San Ajitonio 
and Galveston, Texas, and at Nashville, Tenn., and in 
1876 became editor of the Texas ** Presbyterian.'' W. C. 
Cattell, D. D., was Professor of Greek and Latin in La- 
fayette College, Pa., 1855-1860, and in 1863 became 
president of the college. J. M. Crowell, D. D., was long 
pastor in Philadelphia. Caspar Wistar Hodge, D, D., 
son of Charles Hodge, was teacher a ad pastor for some 
years, and in 1860 became Professor of the New Tes- 
tament in the seminary, having succeeded Addison 
Alexander, who had held that position for one year; Dr. 
C. W. Hodge died in 1891. George McQueen was a mis- 
sionary in Western Africa from 1852 to his death in 1859. 
Robert Price, D. D., ft Mississippian, was long pastor in 
Vicksburg. Robert Watts, D. D., a native of Ireland, 
was pastor in Philadelphia for ten years, and in Dublin 
for three years, and since 1866 has been professor of Sys- 
tematic Theology in the Assembly's College at Belfast, 
Ireland. He is the author of numerous works in support; 
of Presbyterianism or of general orthodoxy, of which the 
best known are '^The Newer Criticism" (1881), "The 
Rule of Faith and the Doctrine of Inspiration " (1885), 
and '' The New Apologetic." 

Among the students who entered a year later than Boyce 
we may mention Edgar Woods, who was Presbyterian pas- 
toi? at several places in Virginia and Ohio, and after 1877 
a teachet at Charlottesville, Va. There was also quite 
a group of Baptist students from the South who entered 
that year, the division between Northetn and Southern 
Baptists making many reluctant to attend Newton or 
Hamilton. Alfred Bagby has spent a very useful life as 
pastor of Baptist churches in King and Queen and adja- 
cent counties of Virginia. Andrew Puller Davidson was 



AT PRINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 76 

also a beloved pastor of churches m Virginia for a good 
many years till his death. James K. Mendenhall had 
been Boyce's friend in Charleston, and his fellow-student 
at Brown University. He became pastor of various 
Baptist churches in South Carolina and Florida, and 
since 1875 has labored as missionary and evangelist in 
South Carolina, residing in Greenville. Kichard Furman 
Whilden had studied at the Furman Institution in South 
Carolina, and was admitted to the middle class in Prince- 
ton, thus becoming Boyce's class-mate* He was graduated 
in 1852, was pastor and teacher at various iK)ints in South 
Carolina, and since 1864 has resided in Greenville County, 
teaching and preaching. 

Of those who had entered a year earlier than Boyce at 
least a few ought to be mentioned. Robert G. Brank, D. D., 
tvas long pastor in Lexington, Ky., and since 1869 has 
been a well-known pastor in St. Louis. S. S. Laws, 
LL.D., was for some years president of Westminster 
College, Mo., and then president of the University of 
Missouri from 1875 to 1890. Joseph W. Warder, D. D., 
of Kentucky, had been two years a student at Newton 
Institution, near Boston, and came to Princeton for his 
third year. He was Baptist pastor at various points in 
Kentucky and Missouri, and of the Walnut Street Baptist 
Church in Louisville, 1875-1880. Since that timfe he has 
been Corresponding Secretary of the Executive Board of 
the Baptist General Association of Kentucky. Of those 
who composed the Senior class when Boyce entered, L. G. 
Barbour, D. D., has been a teacher at various points in 
Kentucky, and is now professor in the Central University 
at Eichmond, in that State. Basil Manly, Jr*j of Ala- 
bama, after one year at Newton^ had entered Princeton in 
1845, and been graduated in 1847. This was two years 
before Boyce entered; but it is mentioned because they 
had been boys together in Charleston, and were destined 
to be colleagues for many yefu^s. 



76 MEMOIB OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Almost every student is more interested in one or two 
subjects than in the rest of his appointed course of study. 
Mr. Boyce had at Brown University become a thoroughly 
earnest student ; and the conviction that it was his duty to 
be a preacher, together with his brief experience as an 
editor, must have deepened the desire to become acquainted 
with all the leading departments of a theological course. 
He worked faithfully in all directions. He also gave un- 
usual attention to the library, steadily accumulating that 
general knowledge of books for which he was remarkable 
through life. Observe the plans indicated in a letter writ- 
ten a few weeks after his arrival at Princeton : — 

'^ I am DOW pursuing, in connection with lectures on that sub- 
ject, a full course of reading in Mental Philosophy, designing to 
extend it from that of the Greeks down to the present day. At 
the same time I am pursuing Hebrew Exegesis in Genesis, and 
Greek in Romans, and am carrying on a course of reading in 
the biography of the great and the good who have shed lustre 
upon the Christian name." 

But his favorite study from beginning to end was Sys- 
tematic Theology. He was naturally inclined to reflect 
upon principles and causes, and had a facility in organiz- 
ing the results of reading and talk which was akin to his 
unusual talent for organizing and administering business 
affairs. These natural capacities had been no little devel- 
oped by Dr. Wayland's instructions in psychology and 
ethics, and by his familiar association with Dr. A. M. 
Poindexter, who delighted to draw every young minister 
into the deepest theological inquiry and the most animated 
discussion. The leading subject at Princeton has always 
been Theology. Thus the whole atmosphere of the place 
united with the great powers and influence of Dr. Hodge 
and the native tendencies and previous training of this 
student to make him especially earnest in the study of 
Systematic and Polemic Theology. 



AT PRINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 77 

During the second session he took his regular part in 
the appointed preaching and in the prayer-meeting; hut 
Mr. Whilden says he was not prominent in the debating 
society. This must have arisen from the pressure of his 
studies, for he was naturally fond of discussion, and 
through life his powers always worked to better advantage 
in debate on the floor than in pulpit discourse. During 
the second session, when Mr. Whilden was there, Boyce 
was overwhelmingly busy, for he determined to carry on 
the studies of the Senior class together with those of the 
Middle class, to which he belonged. He obtained from 
some fellow-student the full notes of Dr. Hodge's course 
in Theology, as dictated in previotis years ; and these were 
patiently copied by the young wife, thus saving him a 
great deal of time and toil. Add to this that he had an 
extraordinary power of application and endurance, — he 
could work for weeks, when under any special pressure, 
with five hours a day of sleep, almost no exercise, and well- 
nigh incessant application to study. His recreation was 
found in cheery talk at meals, in the occasional drives of 
which he was fond, and the somewhat frequent visits which 
he and his wife paid to his sister Mary, Mrs. William 
Lane, of New York city. 

In December he writes to Mr. Tupper that they have a 
delightful place of boarding, with" the widow of an emi- 
nent physician. The Georgia wife is **in perfect ec- 
stasies with the to her somewhat unusual sight " of a 
heavy snow. Two of his sisters have just been married 
in Charleston to Mr. Tupper and Mr. Burckmyer, and in 
sending congratulations he speaks most enthusiastically 
of his own wife. He is exceedingly pleased with Dr. James 
Alexander, — a handsome man, with beautiful dark eyes, 
and the bearing of a Christian gentleman, and in the 
department of sacred rhetoric **the most delightful lec- 
turer I have ever heard." He thinks Addison Alexander 
*^the most gifted, but by no means the most admirable, 



78 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOTCE. 

member of the Faculty/' having seen him display <^an 
ungovernable temper," — probably with reference to the 
Hebrew. Dr. Archibald Alexander is fast declining in 
years, and does not seem '<as gifted as his sons, but has 
a very clear, logical mind." Dr. Hodge << is one of the 
most excellent of men; so modest and yet so wise, so kind 
and fatherly in his manner, and yet of so giant an intel- 
lect, he is a man who deserves a world of praise." In 
February Boyce has been to New York, and finds the 
Lane family about to build a home on Madison Square, 
and attending the ministry of the famous Dr. William R. 
Williams. He expresses much fervent solicitude, and 
again and again proposes special prayer for the conversion 
of various relatives. He affectionately urges Mr. Tupper, 
who has become pastor at Graniteville, S. C. (near Aiken), 
to be very faithful in pastoral visiting, which he thinks 
a good many ministers comparatively neglect. 

On Feb. 17, 1850, Mr. Boyce preached the first ser- 
mon that remains to us, and it is indorsed as written 
in January. It was given at a Baptist church called 
'*Penn's Neck," a few miles from Princeton. The text 
is Acts xxvi. 28: ^^ Almost thou persuadest me to be a 
Christian." It is thoroughly practical, and intensely 
earnest, abounding in pointed address to different classes 
of hearers, and fervent exhortation. You feel in reading 
that you are dealing with a man of strong intellect, great 
force of character, and large heart, a man full of Christian 
love and zeal, and consumed with desire to save souls. 
The sentences are often wanting in symmetry, and show 
the hurried negligence from which his style never wholly 
recovered; but the thoughts are made entirely clear, and 
are expressed with vigor and force. Written when he was 
just twenty-three years old, it is a notable sermon. 

We learn from his wife that he frequently preached at 
''Penn's Neck" during this and the following session. 
Dr. C. W. Hodge, who was his fellow-student, in a letter 



AT PEINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 79 

after Boyce's death spoke of "his high reputation for 
eloquence and strength in the pulpit," and says he "was 
in request for supplying pulpits out of town." It is well 
that seminary students should preach somewhat fre- 
quently, not for practice and criticism before a class, but 
as actual preaching to a real congregation. They can thus 
add greatly to the evangelizing and pastoral work of the 
city and vicinity, and in this day of fast trains can go to 
distances of a hundred miles or more. In every theolo- 
gical school there are doubtless some students who spend 
too much time in preaching, especially when they become 
pastors, and must hold protracted meetings. But on the 
whole it is believed that students should be encouraged 
to preach, for they may do good to others, and gain benefit 
to themselves. The religious fervor in which a young 
man gave himself to the work of the ministry will often 
be best maintained by actual preaching, or at any rate by 
teaching in mission Sunday-schools and the like. Theo- 
logical studies ought to be pursued throughout as having 
a practical aim; and this aim i^ best kept in view by the 
student who is doing some actual ministerial work. Be- 
sides, the pecuniary compensation which is sometimes 
received will enable a man to continue his studies without 
depressing want or extreme dependence upon the gene 
rosity of others. Mr. Boyce's means are well known to 
have been ample; but through life he welcomed, and indeed 
required, suitable compensation for ministerial service, 
because he would have just that much more to give away, 
and because he was not willing to encourage a church in 
the neglect of its own duty to support the ministry. 

The vacation in the summer of 1860 was spent by Mr. 
and Mrs. Boyce with her relatives in Virginia, chiefly 
with her uncle, Burwell Ficklen, in Fredericksburg, and 
her uncle, George Ficklen, at Thompsonville, in Culpeper 
County, and her aunt, Mrs. Brown, who lived in the same 
neighborhood. These were all families of high standing 



1 



80 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

and large hospitality, where many agreeable acquaintances 
were to be made, besides the circle of kinsfolk. It was a 
delightful way to spend vacation. The Piedmont Coun- 
ties of Virginia, east of the Blue Kidge, are a singularly 
healthy region, half way between .North and South, half 
way between sea-coast and mountain. In summer weather, 
to ride or drive over beautiful hills and vales, gazing at 
will upon the deep-blue mountain range on the west, and 
to visit the large country houses and large-hearted country 
folk, must be healthy in every sense. Our young couple 
were both remarkably adapted to enjoy such a series of 
visits, and to brighten life for all with whom they met. 
Few men so promptly win and so permanently hold the 
confidence and affection of others as did James P. Boyce. 
Highly cordial in manner and manifestly sincere, big- 
hearted and considerate, overflowing with vitality, and 
yet full of gentle courtesy and abounding in delicate tact, 
he seemed perfectly at ease, and made all around feel at 
ease, alike in the palaces of the rich and in the cottages of 
the poor. One fancies there must still be persons in Cul- 
peper and m Fredericksburg who remember that summer 
visit of their gifted and charming young cousins as an 
epoch of rare enjoyment. 

This region was full of Baptist churches. A sermon 
remains, indorsed br Boyce as first preached at Mount Le- 
banon church, Rappahannock County, Va., August 11, and 
at Fredericksburg, August 25, 1850. It contains glowing 
expressions about the beauties of Nature, which leave little 
doubt that it was written in Culpeper, amid the beautiful 
hills and in sight of the beautiful mountains; for Prince- 
ton, with all its celebrity and advantages, lies in a flat 
and dull country. It is always pleasant when the thoughts 
of poet or speaker take shape and color from the immediate 
surroundings. This sermon is on John iii. 16, " For God 
so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son," 
etc. The introduction is excellent, and the plan good. 



AT PRINCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 81 

There is perhaps too much of theological discussion ahout 
the divine nature and purposes, and the relations of the 
Father to the Son, for a discourse meant to be thoroughly 
practical. It often requires considerable experience before 
the ministerial student can avoid carrying unchanged into 
the pulpit the thoughts and methods which have deeply 
interested him in the lecture-room. But the fault in this 
case is at any rate not serious. The sermon is earnest, 
and aims at practical results ; and it can hardly have failed 
to have been heard with great interest, when read in the 
sonorous and musical tones, and with the impressive and 
engaging aspect, of the young preacher.^ After leaving 
Virginia he visited New York city, and attended a meet- 
ing of his class at Brown University, introducing his wife 
to his classmates. 

Through his first letter from Princeton in September we 
learn that this summer travelling had occupied more than 
four months. On every Sunday but three he had preached, 
and had enjoyed much time for general reading. His 
health was now excellent. He had decided to carrj'^ on 
the third year's work together with that of the second year, 
and was beginning to plan for the next summer, when he 
should leave Princeton. If no immediate opening for use- 
fulness should be found in South Carolina, he thought of 
going to Halle, in G-ermany, especially to study German 
and Hebrew; or, to avoid separation from his wife, he might 
spend several months in some Kortliern city, and there 

1 He mnst have left Culpeper for Fredericksburg about August 20. 
Ten days later, the writer of this memoir, having been gi'aduated in 
June at the University of Virginia, and gone to visit his kindred in 
Culpeper, attended a meeting of the Shiloh Association at a place only 
four or five miles from Mr. George Ficklen's, and was frightened by 
being asked to preach. If Boyce had remained a little longer he would 
have attended also, for he was fond of Associations, and two, who were 
destined to toil so long together, would have met years before they did 
meet. Havrthorne has a quaint story to iUustrate how often things 
come very near happening, and do not happen. 

6 



82 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

study the same languages. Two weeks later he is still 
considering where he shall settle as a minister. If there 
is no available place in South Carolina, he would be 
willing to labor near Providence, R. I., or else he will go 
West, having had already au informal invitation to St. 
Louis. His present studies (probably meaning especially 
Theology and Homiletics) have impressed on him afresh 
the great importance of the ministry. He feels deeply 
unworthy to be an ambassador for God, not competent to 
speak words on which must depend men's happiness or 
misery, according as they shall believe them. He envies 
his correspondent the ministerial usefulness already at- 
tained, and longs to equal him, — yea, wishes he could do 
more than man ever did, in saving souls through the grace 
of God. He is engaged in anxious self-examination as to 
the reality of his call to be a minister. In December he 
expresses great regret at learning tliat all the pamphlets, 
etc., he left at home have somehow been destroyed. He was 
through life very solicitous to preserve every pamphlet or 
periodical, and bequeathed to the Seminary a very large 
and valuable collection of these, along with his theolo- 
gical library. This early loss included all his college 
addresses, and some sermons, with valued letters, etc. He 
is rejoiced to hear that Mr. Tupper has been preaching on 
Sunday afternoons to the negroes, including a larjge number 
of hired men engaged in building a railroad, and urges 
him to continue this, if his health will possibly allow. 
<*The Lord will bless your labors to them. Teach them 
as well as preach to them. You know I have long thought 
that for such congregations there should be given a great 
deal of exposition, such as is suitable to explain and cause 
them to remember the sacred text. I should delight to 
preach to them myself. I think that while we from the 
South should support our mission to Africa, we should 
also remember Africa at home. Let us teach them, preach 
to them, bear with them, explain to them, though they 



AT PRDJCETON THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 83 

may be slow of heart to believe. May God bless your 
efEortSy and those of all who attempt to preach the gospel 
to these poor of our land." 

Mr. Boyce left Princeton somewhat before the close of 
the session, May 1st. As a matter of course he received 
no diploma, since he did not remain till the end of the 
cx)urse. He was always satisfied that he learned more by 
the plan pursued than if he had entered the middle year 
(making up the Hebrew by private work), which would 
have given him the regular graduation. He spent two or 
three months in New York, devoting himself to a thorough 
review of his theological studies. He considered the 
question of going to study in Germany, but concluded 
that he must now begin ministerial work. Writing to 
Mr, Tupper in March, he expresses a deep sense of un- 
worthiness, but a strong desire to be the means of saving 
souls and glorifying Christ. 

In July we find him at Washington, Ga., considering 
an invitation to become pastor of the Baptist Church at 
Columbia, S. C. The church records show that, August 9, 
they received a letter from him accepting the pastoral 
charge, to take effect 1st October. 

In the summer of 1851 Mr. Ker Boyce made a trip to 
Europe, accompanied by his youngest children, Ker and 
Lizzie; but we have no details. The desire to visit 
Europe grew upon James through all the years, but had to 
be denied till near the close of his life, — one of the many 
sacrifices he made for the work of theological education. 



k 



84 MEMOIR OF JAMES F. BOYCE. 



CHAPTER Vn. 

PASTOR AT COLUMBIA, 1851-1855. 

C COLUMBIA, the capital of South Carolina since 1790, 
J is one hundred miles northwest from Charleston, on 
the Congaree River. This river is formed hy the junction 
of the Broad and the Saluda, and is navigahle to the rapids 
vrhich lie just below the junction. Hence the location of 
the city, and marked advantages in the way of water-power, 
never realized till recently. The population in 1851, when 
Mr. Boyce became pastor, was about seven thousand. There 
was a railway to Charleston, which presently made a junc- 
tion with a railway leading northward by Wilmington, 
N. C, and lower down with another leading westward by 
Augusta and Atlanta. Of late years Columbia has become 
quite a railroad centre, and there has been a marked 
growth in manufacturing and in population. 

The city is in a healthy region. The ridge of sand and 
pines, which near Augusta has become so famous at Aiken, 
the home of consumptives, extends northeastward so as to 
include the neighborhood of Columbia. The sand absorbs 
moisture so as to dry the atmosphere, and the pine-trees 
take out malarious elements, so that in this region persons 
having weak lungs in early years have lived a comparatively 
long and vigorous life. 

Columbia was already quite a handsome Southern town. 
The spacious streets were well shaded, some of them hav- 
ing not only trees along the sidewalks, but a double row 
along the centre, with a walk between, as in Augusta, 
Savannah, and other Southern cities, and in Commonwealth 
Avenue, Boston. There were many handsome residences, 



PASTOR AT COLUMBIA. 86 

built in the Southern style, with large rooms and ample 
windows, and with broad porticos or verandas, sometimes 
on all four sides of the house, and even repeated for the 
second story. The principal dwellings were surrounded 
by extensive grounds filled with trees, shrubbery, and 
flowers. It is difficult for one who has not seen them to 
imagine the delightsomeness of these Southern abodes, 
found often in the country as well as in the town. From 
the blazing sun you passed into an atmosphere of de- 
licious coolness, delicately perfumed by the odor of grow- 
ing flowers that entered at every window. The family 
were often highly educated, and always had in a high de- 
gree the charming manners of an aristocratic society. The 
hospitality seemed perfect. The memory of even brief 
visits to those noble Southern homes bears now a touch of 
romance, like the history of the old French noblesse^ and 
something like the stories of the Arabian Nights. Prob- 
ably the most notable residence in Columbia was the 
famous Hampton House, built by the second Wade Hamp- 
ton, whose father was colonel in the Revolutionary army, 
and general in the War of 1812, who was himself aide to 
General Jackson at the battle of New Orleans, and whose 
son, of the same name, is the Confederate general and 
United States Senator, — all three celebrated for skilful 
horsemanship, all gifted and gallant soldiers, all capital 
specimens of the Southern gentleman, and bom leaders of 
men. The Hampton House and its grounds are said to 
have cost $60,000, which was then a large sum of money. 
Around Columbia in various directions are low and pleas- 
ing hills, which, with the river scenery, make fine drives, 
such as Boyce delighted in. 

The Legislature of South Carolina possessed unusual 
powers, electing not only governor and judges and senators, 
but the electors for president, and also appointing all man- 
ner of county officials. This gave dignity to the post of 
State representative or senator, and so the Legislature 



^^c 




tf M " A £•'$■ ■ DO n 

5J? M-^ISt^^iW'S, ^«se, with the 

*•'— ■■■•"•'^'-•BJJIlBkB^ winter 



occupying 
lavish 



■Btajy school, called 

'- -f study, the 

Charleston. 

1804 

Mtt S maa iM sM '^'^Sfcre J- L- Fetigni 
in49|j§^VJ|i]f8K?tii'cluded by 1851 

iB 9J*'^^iS!tt M^l&^g them was the 

..SB '••iS'iM^vsy^'**'^ U"**^^ ^^^^^ 

"^^' ^ c *^™°^*' unrivalled 

fetrange in the son 

*'as jnat ending in. 

the college. His 

irsonal influence, 

not remarkable 

itratiye talent, he 

iTid a commanding 

well, D, D., one 

iters and educators 

:e college, and had 

Irst of Logic and 

Literature, with 

chaplain. He had 

Charleston to be 

terian Theological 
in existence, and 

the professors was 
and a very gifted 
with admiration 




PASTOR AT COLUMBIA. 87 

in subsequent years; and from 1853 Dr. B. M. Palmer, 
who since 1856 has been pastor in !N"ew Orleans, and one 
of the most eminent preachers in America. As a matter 
of course, the city had a very flourishing Presbyterian 
church. The Scotchmen and Scotch-Irish, who had been 
so influential among the early settlers of the State, were 
generally faithful to Presbyterianism, and so were many 
of the Huguenot families; others of the Huguenots, to- 
gether with the leading English families among the early 
settlers, attached themselves to the Episcopal Church. 
These retained the social prestige brought over from the 
English Establishment, as Presbyterians still held the 
educational and social influence which they had brought 
from Scotland. Both of these important religious bodies 
have endeavored in America to confine their ministry to 
men regularly trained for the purpose. This has pre- 
vented their taking hold upon the American people at 
large, — even as the lawyers and doctors of this country 
have necessarily included a very large proportion of men 
irregularly trained; and the great popular denominations 
have been those that encouraged every man to preach who 
felt moved to do so, and whom the people were willing 
to hear. But the fact that Presbyterian and Episcopal 
clergymen were regarded as an educated class added to 
the influences above mentioned in giving those religious 
denominations a powerful hold upon American cities and 
towns, which continues to the present day. About the 
middle of this century, just at the time when James P. 
Boyce began his work as a pastor, we can see signs of a 
marked advance among Methodists, Baptists, and other 
denominations, in the way of having a larger proportion 
of their ministers to be men thoroughly trained for that 
calling. The Baptist ministry had always included some 
such men, in South Carolina and in all the States; but 
about this time there was a definite forward impulse. 
The Baptist church at Columbia comprised in 1851 but 



SS MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

few members, none of them possessing mnch of social in- 
fluence or wealth. The house of worship was a small brick 
building, presenting a very plain gable front. When 
young men reared in Baptist families came from the coun- 
try or from Charleston to reside in the capital, there was 
everything to draw them away from the Baptist church to 
the other denominations of whom we have spoken; and 
yet far-seeing men could perceive that it was wise to be- 
stow special labor upon this little church. If a minister 
of ability could manage to live there, faithful work would 
tell ; for the Baptists were numerous in some parts of the 
State, and beginning to grow almost everywhere. Mr. 
Boyce's predecessor. Rev. H. A. Duncan, was a man of 
talents and worth, but doubtless found it impossible to 
sustain himself on the meagre salary. Mr. Boyce had the 
advantage of a large private income, and also of personal 
acquaintance and influence in the Charleston Association, 
to which the church at Columbia belonged, and which 
might be induced to give aid and comfort. It was under- 
stood before he accepted the call to be pastor that an effort 
would soon be made to erect a better house of worship, for 
which it was believed that he could obtain assistance in 
other parts of the State. 

So we find our young minister entering upon his duties 
as pastor in Columbia, Oct. 1, 1851. Two weeks after, he 
writes that he is much pleased with the work. The con- 
gregations are very small, but he hopes, by the blessing of 
God, to be useful. In November he was ordained, the pres- 
bytery comprising J. E-. Kendrick (of Charleston), John 
Culpeper, John M. Timmons, and the famous Dr. Thomas 
Curtis, whom we shall meet later in these Memoirs. Dr. 
Curtis asked the candidate for ordination if he proposed to 
make a life-long matter of preaching; and he answered, 
•* Yes, provided I do not become a professor of theology." 

These early years of ministry present, as frequently 
happens, but little to record. As he is now near to Mr. 



PASTOR AT COLUMBIA. 89 

Tupper and they often meet, the letters between them are 
few. We may be sure that he was diligently studying 
theology, reading widely in his own already large collec- 
tion of books and in other accessible libraries, and faith- 
fully preparing his sermons. Besides the Seminary, the 
College library was one of the best in the South. Board- 
ing at the principal hotel, he had opportunity for making 
pleasant acquaintance with legislators and other leading 
men. His father being known as the wealthiest man in 
Carolina, and he himself being uncommonly attractive 
and agreeable, while his wife possessed like qualities in a 
remarkable degree, he would rapidly gain consideration in 
important quarters. Yet these things did not at all hin- 
der his visits to the humblest homes of his congregation, 
nor his personal influence over all who attended his minis- 
try; for he had rare power of making himjself easy and 
agreeable among all, and he was deeply earnest in the desire 
to be useful as a minister of the gospel. In December Col- 
onel Preston left the presidency of the college, on account 
of ill health, and Dr. Thornwell yielded to much urgency, 
and, giving up again his cherished desire to be a pastor, 
returned to Columbia and became president. As a gradu- 
ate of Princeton, the son of Ker Boyce, and an attractive 
gentleman, the young Baptist pastor must have early be- 
come acquainted with this great man, whose sermon in a 
Charleston pulpit had so charmed him in boyhood, and 
whose influence must have conduced to the promotion of 
profound thinking, wide reading, and great earnestness in 
the gospel ministry. 

On May 13, 1852, the church, as its meagre records 
show, granted the pastor three months, or longer if neces- 
sary, to visit other churches in the State, and solicit con- 
tributions towards building a new house of worship. The 
pulpit was to be supplied by his early friend and fellow-stu- 
dent, Rev. J. K. Mendenhall. We know that in his private 
carriage Mr. Boyce drove over large portions of the State. 



90 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

The contributions pledged do not seem to have been suffi- 
cient at that time for the purpose, as the new church was 
not built till several years later. In the summer of this 
year he was thinking of purchasing a certain house and 
fitting it up for his residence. In April, 1853, various 
letters to Mr. Tupper in Charleston contain nothing but 
requests to select this article, and order that, for his 
house. It was his fancy that the dwelling should be com- 
pletely finished and furnished when his young wife first 
entered it; and those who knew him well can imagine the 
pleasure he took in arranging all details and perfecting all 
preparations for their home life. Here they lived for more 
than two years, delighting to entertain their friends and 
kindred. In the summer of 1853 Mr. Boyce went north- 
ward. He had stipulated with the church in the begin- 
ning that he should have one month of vacation every 
summer, such definite arrangements being at that time 
rare in Southern churches. During this trip to the North 
he attended the meeting of his class at Brown University, 
now six years after their graduation, and took the degree 
of A. M. in course. 

On Jan. 11, 1853, the church records show that the 
pastor succeeded, after months of persuasion, in intro- 
ducing a melodeon to help the singing; and the next year 
he secured a choir-leader, at a salary of one hundred dol- 
lars per annum. It requires time and patience to alter 
any fixed usage of a Baptist church ; and this respect for 
established custom is, on the whole, a beneficial check 
upon the action of a thoroughly free organization in a 
period enamoured of progress. 

Throughout these four years of pastoral work at Colum- 
bia, the young minister was encouraged by a steady growth 
of the little church. We have seen that the white people 
of the city were mainly attached to other churches, and so 
the material available for him was not large. But there 
was a marked increase in numbers, and still more in lib- 



! 



PASTOR AT COLUMBIA. 91 

eraJity and other Christian graces. It must have heen 
especially gratifying that he was enahled to get a strong 
hold upon the colored people. We have seen him dwell- 
ing upon this subject when editor, and exhorting Mr. 
Tupper, in one of his letters from Princeton, to work 
faithfully among the negroes, giving them much oral 
explanation of the Scriptures. He doubtless pursued this 
course himself, striving not only to touch their religious 
susceptibilities, but to give them helpful instruction in 
the way of salvation and the fundamental duties of a 
Christian life. A wealthy and highly educated young 
minister was fitly employed in such labor for the benefit 
of the slaves. Nor was this a singular case. While the 
reading world was just then becoming fascinated and 
enkindled by the high-wrought pictures of *^ Uncle Tom's 
Cabin," published in 1852, and deeply impressed with 
the real and supposed evils of slavery; while events were 
rapidly moving towards the great and awful conflict of 
ten years later, numerous ministers throughout the South, 
chiefly Baptist and Methodist, were faithfully laboring 
to convert and instruct the vast multitude of colored 
people among whom they found themselves called to the 
work of the ministry. By no means all was done that 
ought to have been done; when and where has this been 
the case about anything ? But thousands and ten thou- 
sands of Christian men and women did feel the burden of 
these lowly souls laid upon themselves, did toil faithfully 
and often with great sacrifice to bring them to the Saviour, 
and lovingly to guide their weak and ignorant steps in 
the paths of Christian life. Certainly there was among 
them, in some respects, a very low standard of Christian 
morality, as is usually the case with ignorant converts of 
any degraded race. But there are many still living who 
can testify, from personal observation and effort, that not 
a few of these negro Christians gave real and gratifying 
evidence of being Christians indeed. They were not 



92 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

black angels, as some romantic readers of romance half 
imagined, nor yet black demons, as some who hated them 
then and now would have us believe; they were and are 
simply black men, from among the lowest races of man- 
kind, yet by no means beyond the reach of saving Chris- 
tian truth and loving Christian culture. Some of us 
remember them with strange tenderness of feeling, like 
that of foreign missionaries for their lowly converts, and 
find it painful to see them grossly misrepresented, either 
by fanciful eulogy or foolish censure. And now that the 
long conflict is long past, and we are facing the most 
remarkable problem that any civilized nation was ever 
called to attempt, — the problem of slowly and. patiently 
lifting these people up to all they can reach, — it were well 
if mutual misjudgments could be laid aside, if the faithful 
work of many Christians in those trying years could be 
on all sides appreciated, and the whole undertaking before 
us could be estimated in part by. its best results, and not 
simply by its worst difficulties. 

From this ministry of four years there remain notes of 
several sermons, and a good many sermons written in 
full. He usually prepared by making a rather extended 
sketch, — what lawyers call a ^' brief,'' — which he kept 
before him when speaking. Most of these were allowed 
to perish in the course o|- y ears. From the outset we find 
him grasping with decided vigor, the thought or several 
thoughts of the text, explaining and strongly vindicating 
the great doctrines of Scripture, applying the truth to his 
hearers with direct and fervid exhortation. There is still 
not much of illustration, but now and then an expanded 
figure that shows imaginative powers worthy to be oftener 
employed. The style is sometimes negligent, bat rarely 
fails to be lucid and vigorous. Above all, the sermons 
show a man very anxious to do good; they belong to 
*'an earnest ministry." In later years we shall meet 
several sermons that will require our special attention. 



PASTOR AT COLUMBIA. 93 

On March 19, 1854, occurred the death, at Columbia, 
of Mr. Ker Boyce. He had for some years made his home 
at Kalmia, not far from Aiken and Graniteville, where 
he had a delightful residence, shared with him by Mr. 
and Mrs. H. A. Tupper, until they removed, in 1853, to 
Washington, Ga. Going to Columbia on a visit to James, 
he was taken ill with heart-troubles, and after lingering 
ten days he died on a Sunday at midnight. His children 
had all gathered, and it is said that they <* confidently 
expected his recovery; but he was persuaded of his ap- 
proaching death, and in view thereof he spoke calmly and 
with resignation, expressing his hope and trust in the 
mercy of Christ." Dr. Tupper says that during their 
residence together at Kalmia he showed great love of 
the Bible, and special interest in the family worship. 
Numerous letters to the Tuppers during 1850-1854 have 
been preserved, and not only abound in the warmest ex- 
pressions of fatherly interest and affection, but often 
speak in a distinctly religious tone. 

Obituaries in numerous papers of South Carolina and 
other States, and personal recollections of various friends, 
all go to show that Ker Boyce was a man of remarkable 
abilities and character. His achievements in the business 
world would necessarily imply this ; for causes have to be 
equal to effects, and he who has through a long life 
achieved great things must necessarily be at least in 
some respects a great man. Mr. Boyce was especially 
noted for his insight into the character and abilities of 
men. To an extent quite unknown before that time in 
Charleston, he trusted his business associates and em- 
ployees. People observed that notwithstanding predic- 
tions to the contrary, the enterprises in which he was 
interested almost always proved successful; and it slowly 
dawned upon them that he was safe in trusting men, 
because he selected men who could be trusted. We have 
already seen that he was a man of great nerve and pluck. 



94 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

who in time of commercial panic never feared, but held 
up things. It is said that he had an extraordinary mem- 
ory for business matters, keeping details in his head, and 
never forgetting his business engagements. A marked 
peculiarity was the ease with which he left all business 
anxieties behind him at the close of the day. He some- 
times said that in shutting the doors of his bank he shut 
in all his worries; and when in the family circle you 
could hardly have imagined that this was a great finan- 
cier, daily engaged in large transactions, for he seeined 
as lively and gay as the children. This power of com- 
pletely throwing off one's cares, and heartily enjoying the 
cheery and humorous side of life, has been observable in 
many of those who have endured great labors and carried 
through great undertakings in the world. After the death 
of James P. Boyce, his colleague, Dr. Basil Manly, wrote 
as follows in a newspaper article: "My memory, as a 
child, of Mr. Ker Boyce, is of a most dignified, vigorous, 
commanding figure. The cast of his countenance and the 
peculiar compression of his lips indicated settled convic- 
tion and determination, while his penetrating eye showed 
the intelligence and inquiring mind which made him a 
power in the city and the State.'' Portraits show that 
James strikingly resembled his father in personal appear- 
ance; and his friends are well aware, as his whole career 
shows, that there was also a marked resemblance in many 
admirable points of character. 

Mr. Ker Boyce bequeathed $20,000 to the Orphan House 
in Charleston, — an institution highly esteemed in the city, 
— and $30,000 to the College of Charleston. The income 
of this latter fund was to be used in aiding needy students, 
who were chosen by his son James as long as lie lived, 
and are now chosen by one of the sisters. His large estate 
was left under the control of a son only twenty-seven years 
old, and a^ busy and faithful minister of religion. The 
associate executors, Judge John Belton O'Neall, Arthur 



PASTOR AT COLUMBIA. 96 

G. Eose, Esq. (who afterwards went to live in England), 
and James A. Whiteside, of Tennessee, are said to have 
never taken any part in the management, fully sharing the 
father's confidence in his son. This confidence was the 
more remarkable, as much of the estate was to continue in 
the hands of his executors for many years, the final 
division not to he made till the youngest grandson should 
come of age. Through all the trying losses of the war time, 
and all the solicitudes of the years that followed to the end 
of his life, the executor bore these burdens of weighty 
responsibility. 

It was inevitable that he should need some time for 
undivided attention to the settlement of so large an estate. 
Accordingly, the church records show that on April 8, 
1854, he asked and obtained leave of absence from pastoral 
duties until October, **at which time he hoped to be able 
to resume them," his salary to be used in securing a 
supply. The letters of that summer to H. A. Tapper are 
almost entirely occupied with business details. Indeed, 
from this time forward he had to write so many business 
letters that there was seldom opportunity for speaking of 
general matters such as would interest the readers of a 
Memoir. In November he was chosen moderator of the 
Charleston Association, thus for the first time called to 
exercise his remarkable powers as a presiding officer, which 
we shall have frequent occasion to observe hereafter. In 
that year Rev. Edwin T. Winkler became pastor in Charles- 
ton, having previously served two years as Corresponding 
Secretary of the S. B. Publication Society, and editor of 
the ** Southern Baptist.'^ The frequent meeting thus 
occasioned with one so gifted and cultured and lovable 
must have been a great pleasure to the Columbia pastor. 

At the end of the year came out Dr. ThornwelPs '* Dis- 
courses on Truth," a small volume of sermons which had 
been delivered in the chapel of South Carolina College. 
These made a profound impression on some young pastors 



96 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

of that day, which might well be deepened in the case of 
Air. Boyce by his personal acquaintance with the author. 

During that winter or spring there were probably 
negotiations as to the idea of Mr. Boyce's becoming Pro- 
fessor of Theology in Furman University at Greenville, 
S. C, the health of Professor Mims having hopelessly 
failed ; for the church records show that on April 29th 
Boyce tendered his resignation^ to take effect October 1st. 
The church earnestly sought to prevent this dissolution of 
the pastoral relation, but on May 6th they accepted his 
resignation, with unusual expressions of regret and affec- 
tion. They had indeed unusual cause, apart from the 
pastor's personal worth ; for he showed his interest in the 
struggling church of which he had for four years been 
pastor, by proposing to contribute $500 towards a salary of 
$1200 for his successor.^ We know also of a promise on 
his part to contribute $10,000 towards a new house of wor- 
ship for the church, whenever they should be prepared to 
build, — a promise duly carried out a few years later. It 
was probably in the autumn of 1854 that he also promised 
to aid in building a new church on Citadel Square, in 
Charleston. Mr. Burckmyer, who had married his sister, 
was about to be baptized, and consulted James Boyce and 
B. C. Pressley, Esq., as to whether he should join the 
First Church, or the newer church on Wentworth Street. 
Pressley said he should do neither, but took them out to 
Citadel Square, and showed the point at which a new and 
elegant church building ought to be erected. James 
approved the idea, and said they could put him down for 
$10,000. The movement soon began, and others of the 
Boyce family gave $30,000 more towards erecting what was 
for a long time, and is perhaps still, the noblest Baptist house 
of worship in the South. Let it not be imagined that our 
young minister was thoughtlessly giving away his ample 

1 These extracts from the records have been kindly furnished by 
Rev. W. C. Lindsey, D.D., now pastor of the church at Columbia. 



PASTOR AT COLUMBIA. 97 

inheritance. He gave with' reflection and foresight, as we 
shall find him continuing to do through life. 

In May, 1855, just after his resignation had heen 
accepted, Mr. Boyce attended the Southern Baptist Con- 
vention (which then met once in two years) at Montgomery, 
Ala. Some of us were on the long journey of three or four 
days from Central Virginia, by way of Wilmington and 
Augusta. At a point some hours west of Augusta, a 
branch road came in from Washington, Ga., and several 
passengers came aboard the train, among them a young 
man of large figure and smooth, youthful face, at whose 
entrance the Foreign Mission secretaries, Dr. James B. 
Taylor and Dr. A. M. Poindexter, both rose eagerly, and 
met him with great cordiality. Presently Poindexter 
came and sat down by a young minister of the company, 
and said, ** Yonder is a man I want you to know. He 
is a minister of ability and thorough education, and full 
of noble qualities. His father was a man of great wealth, 
and he is now very generous in his gifts. He is going to 
be one of the most influential of all Southern Baptists. I 
want you to know him.^' At the introduction, it is re- 
membered that his marked heartiness seemed somehow 
a little clouded by a certain reserve. It was not thought 
by the person introduced, though sometimes thought by 
others in after years, that this reserve was due to hauteur. 
All who knew him well soon came to understand that he 
had simply such a contempt for all affected cordiality as 
sometimes to go just a little towards the opposite extreme, 
and thus be slightly misunderstood. He was in fact, from 
youth to age, the soul of cordial kindness. At Mont- 
gomery the Convention appointed a Committee to investi- 
gate some controversy between the Foreign Mission Board 
and Rev. I. J. Roberts, one of the missionaries to China. 
The details of the controversy would be of no importance 
now, if they were remembered. The Committee examined 
very carefully the whole matter, and directed Mr. Boyce, 

7 



98 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

one of its members, to draw up an elaborate report. He 
sat up all night to perform the task. When he came for- 
ward the next day with his report, his commanding figure, 
ringing voice, and look of unpretending genuineness 
and broad good sense made an impression that has lasted; 
and the report so marshalled the facts, and explained all 
the matters involved, as to vindicate the Board, without 
casting any painful censure upon the zealous missionary. 
Poindexter remarked afterwards that he had scarcely ever 
heard a report of a committee that was so ably written and 
so impressively read. Mr. Boyce was then twenty-eight 
years old. 

It may be well enough to mention that at this meeting 
of the convention some of us for the first time encountered 
a new term, and an idea which for the next few years 
awakened no small controversy. After the organization, 
some one offered, as usual, a resolution inviting ministers of 
other denominations to sit with us and participate in our 
deliberations. This was at once sharply objected to, and 
there arose a debate which lasted a whole day. Presently 
the words ^'Old Landmark'' were used; and some of us 
from distant portions of the South, upon asking what in 
the world that meant, were told that Rev. J. M. Pendle- 
ton, of Kentucky, had published in Nashville a tract 
entitled, *^An Old Landmark Reset." In this he was 
said to have maintained that it was a former custom of 
Baptists not to give any invitation or to take any action 
which might seem to recognize ministers of other persua- 
sions as in a just sense ministers. These were also the 
views of Rev. J. R. Graves, editor of the "Tennessee Bap- 
tist,'' published at Nashville. These honored brethren, 
and a number of others from that part of the country, 
maintained these "Landmark" views with great earnestness 
and ability. Those who held a different view appeared in 
many cases to be taken by surprise, through the novelty, 
as it seemed to them, of the " Old Landmark; " and they 



PASTOR AT COLUMBIA, 99 

did not always agree among themselves, nor maintain any 
well-considered or very consistent position. After t]ie 
day's discussion, it was proposed to end the matter by 
letting the resolution be withdrawn, upon the understand- 
ing that those who saw no objection to its passage would 
concede thus much to the views of their brethren who 
objected so strongly. Some present thought already that 
there was no such extreme difference of opinion among us 
as appeared to exist. The controversy in the next few 
years rose high, and in some quarters threatened division. 
But it has now long been felt by ,most brethren that we 
could agree to disagree upon the matters involved, and 
that the great bulk of us were really not very far apart. 



100 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 



CHAPTER VIIL 

PROFESSOR OP THEOLOGY IN FURMAN UNIVERSITY. 

FURMA!N" University had grown out of the Furman 
Academy and Theological Institution, opened at 
Edgefield Court-House, in January, 1827.* The South Caro- 
lina Baptists had previously aided many young men in 
preparing for the ministry, at various private and puhlic 
institutions. This school of their own was located at 
Edgefield in the hope that the Georgia Baptists would 
unite in building up there a theological seminary. Two 
years later it was removed to the High Hills of Santee, 
as exclusively a theological school, the name being after- 
wards changed to the Furman Theological Institution. 
The professors were Jesse Hartwell and Samuel Furman, 
the latter being a son of the famous Richard Furman, 
pastor in Charleston during the Revolutionary days and 
afterwards, in whose honor the institution was named. 
Various attempts were made to combine with the theologi- 
cal a classical school, having at one time a Manual Labor 
feature. The theological professors for some years were 
Rev. William Hooper, D.D., and Rev. J. L. Reynolds, 
D.D., who both became eminent men. Professor J. S. 
Mims was elected in 1842, James C. Furman in 1844, and 
Peter C. Edwards in 1846. Mims was to teach Systematic 
Theology, Edwards the Hebrew Language and Biblical 
Exegesis, and Furman to teach Sacred Rhetoric and Pas- 
toral Duties, and Ecclesiastical History. In 1850 it was 
decided to remove the institution to the town of Green- 

1 See an excellent historical sketch by Professor H. T. Cook in 
the " Baptist Courier " for July 14, 1892. 



PROFESSOR IN FURMAN UNIVERSITY. 101 

ville, as the Theological Department of a new Furman 
University, which was opened in 1851. The theological 
instruction was given mainly by Professor Mims, as Pro- 
fessors Fnrman and Edwards were chiefly occupied with 
the instruction of the general classes in the University. 
Professor Mims was a man of high talents and good educa- 
tion, diligent in study, and loved as a teacher. He was 
a native of North Carolina, interrupted in his youthful 
studies, and much hindered through life, by rather feeble 
health. After studying some time at the University of 
North Carolina and at the Furman Institution, he was 
graduated at the Newton Theological Institution, near 
Boston. He strongly opposed the usual Calvinistic view 
as to the doctrine of Imputation, and defended himself 
before the Trustees of the Furman Institution in 1848, in 
a caustic address on ^* Orthodoxy," which was published 
as a pamphlet. This probably led to the two long and 
elaborate series of articles on Imputation which young 
James Boyce admitted into the " Southern Baptist," while 
he was editor, in 1849. Professor Mims's health quite gave 
way during the session of 1854-1855, and he died on 
June 14, 1855, at the early age of thirty-eight. Some 
books that came from his collection are found in the library 
of the S. B. T. Seminary, and there is a certain touch of 
inspiration, a trace of scholarly enthusiasm and discrimi- 
nation, even in his brief marginal notes. 

When the trustees met, in July, they elected James P. 
Boyce as successor to Professor Mims. On July 26 he 
wrote to H. A. Tupper, then in Europe, that he had been 
appointed professor, and had accepted, on condition that he 
should have further assistance, and added that on Tupper's 
return from Europe in the autumn the chair of Biblical 
Literature and Exegesis would be offered to him. Boyce 
quite urges his friend to accept the position. He says 
there are four students in the theological department, and 
thinks that by February there will be several others, while 



102 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

about twenty are in the collegiate department of the Uni- 
versity, preparing for the ministry. Notwithstanding the 
small number of students, there had been, and was, a high 
ambition to give them thorough training. Professor Mims 
had worn himself out with the task. Boyce felt, and 
judicious friends agreed with him, that alone he could not 
possibly do the requisite teaching. He declared himself 
willing to divide the salary with a colleague, or to yield it 
all, if the colleague should lack other means of support. 
He wrote again to Tupper, on September 29, after begin- 
ning his work : *' I cannot teach more than half the classes 
next term '' (when there would be more students and more 
classes). Mr. Tupper reached Charleston in October, and 
at Boyce's request met him in Columbia to consult. But 
he felt obliged to decline, because unwilling (as he wrote 
to President J. C. Furman) to sever the ** sacred and happy 
relation '' that bound him to the church at Washington, 
Ga., ''or to exchange in a measure the office of preaching 
for that. of teaching.'' Thus Boyce was left to struggle 
on unaided through his first session. It is stated by stu- 
dents of the time that he actually taught five hours a day, 
and some days six hours. To prepare all these lessons, 
with his high standard of thoroughness and kindling am- 
bition, was a severe task, to be sure. Dr. John Mitchell, 
of North Carolina, who was a tutor in the University 
that year, says that Boyce "was industrious, laborious, 
and made a fine impression as a teacher from the first." 

Indeed, Furman University was the seat of much thor- 
ough study and high teaching. Great advantages are 
enjoyed by the students and professors of a large and 
amply endowed institution, and nothing wiser or nobler 
can be done by generous givers than to build up such 
endowments. But it must not be forgotten that a very 
large part of the best educational work that has been done 
in our new country was performed by small institutions, 
in which a few struggling professors, ambitious that their 



PROFESSOR IN FURMAN UNIVERSITY. 103 

students should lack for nothing in the way of instruc- 
tion, were doing each two men's work on half of one 
man's salary, and really got closer to the students, got 
hold of them more strongly and impressively, by reason 
of not being too far in advance of them, because all 
were toiling and struggling on together. Every limita- 
tion and disadvantage in life has certain compensations 
where the men concerned possess real talent ai.nd kin- 
dling aspiration. 

President James C. Furman, D.D., son of the Richard 
Furman after whom the institution was named, had as 
a young preacher enjoyed very remarkable success in 
numerous revival meetings at important points in the 
Carolinas. He was for some years pastor of the singularly 
interesting community about Society Hill, S. C, in the 
region lying between Columbia and Wilmington. He 
greatly longed to be only a preacher and pastor, as was 
true of some others who have felt compelled to yield their 
preference, and spend their lives in aiding the preparatory 
studies of their ministerial brethren. When first elected 
professor in the Furman Institution, he declined; but he 
accepted in 1843, and remained in connection with the Insti- 
tution, and afterwards University, until his death in 1890. 
Dr. Furman was a man of high and varied talents and 
accomplishments, a very winning and impressive preacher, 
and a very lucid and engaging teacher. His singularly 
mild and gentle tones of voice and his general bearing 
really harmonized perfectly with his force of character and 
strong convictions. Had he possessed higher bodily health 
to endure the immense labor of wide study and varied 
teaching, and had he been gifted with a more resolute and 
commanding tone in public speech, he would have been 
generally recognized as one of the ablest men in the coun- 
try. Numerous students, through almost fifty years, have 
felt more and more with the unfolding of their own ex- 
perience how great a privilege they had enjoyed in his 



104 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

ripe instruction and his charming personal influence and 
example. 

C. H. Judson, the Professor of Mathematics, had been 
educated at Hamilton and the University of Virginia, and 
had become professor in Furman University upon its 
establishment in 1851. The plan of organization of the 
University, which was adopted the next year, was chiefly 
prepared by Professor Judson, upon avowed comparison with 
the documents published by the University of Virginia 
and by Brown University, which had in 1850 changed its 
curriculum into a number of separate schools. Professor 
Judson remarkably combines a special talent for metaphysi- 
cal thinking, extraordinary gifts as a mathematician, and 
uncommon energy and skill in practical business affairs. 
As treasurer, he helped to carry the University through 
many years of trial, before and after the war. As teacher 
of mathematics, he has always been remarkable for very 
clear statement, given in a forcible and cogent way, and 
with an enthusiasm for the subject which his quiet man- 
ner did not prevent from kindling the susceptible student, 
— a combination making up a great teacher of mathe- 
matics. He was also at this time teaching the School of 
Natural Philosophy and Astronomy, and the School of 
Chemistry and Natural History. 

Professor Peter C. Edwards, born near Society Hill, S. C, 
had been graduated in South Carolina College and the 
Newton Theological Institution. He was now a laborious 
Professor of Ancient Languages in the University, and 
had little time for the instruction in Biblical Exegesis 
which he had formerly given in Eurman Institution. A 
man of strong intellect, great powers of imagination, 
and depth of feeling, he was an enthusiastic student 
and teacher, but was comparatively deficient in practical 
knowledge and practical judgment. Upon some thor- 
oughly congenial and in itself kindling theme he would 
preach a sermon of wonderful charm and power,* while 



PROFESSOR IN FURMAN UNIVERSITY. 105 

most of his discourses failed to interest the average hearer. 
A question about some favorite theory of Greek syntax 
would lead him o£E into endless and impassioned disqui- 
sitions, quite unsuspecting that a lad who did not know 
his lesson had raised that question to stop the recitation. 
All who knew Professor Edwards well, greatly admired and 
loved him, and students naturally inclined to the study of 
language found him a most inspiring teacher. 

With the able Professor W. B. Eoyall as head of the 
Academic Department, and John Mitchell as tutor, — 
afterwards Thomas Hall, J. B. Patrick, John F. Lanneau, 

— the University was prepared to do, and really was 
doing, much first-rate work in teaching. Our ambitious 
and laborious young Professor of Theology had come into 
a busy workshop. 

The previous professors — Hooper, Reynolds, and Mims 

— had taken more interest in the directly Biblical studies 
than in Systematic Theology. Boyce was most interested 
and best prepared in Systematic Theology and cognate 
subjects; and for this reason, as well as the excess of labor, 
he greatly desired a colleague for the Biblical work; but 
meantime he went on faithfully teaching all the subjects. 
Professor Mims's course had been arranged for two years ; 
Boyce proposed to insert a previous '* undergraduate year, '^ 
in which for six months before the Commencement the col- 

* 

lege students for the ministry would give some attention 
to Hebrew and Biblical History. Among the little group 
of students was Rev. John G. Williams, who has long 
been a popular minister in South Carolina. He writes as 
follows : — 

"Dr. Boyce taught us Systematic Theology (using DicVs 
Theology as a text-book). Church History, Greek New Testament 
Exegesis, and Hebrew. It was easy to see then that Theology 
was his strong point, and had already taken a strong hold on him. 
I thought his lectures — which he required us to take down — on 
one of the Gospels were very able, and have always regretted that I 



106 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCK 

lost my notes of them during the late war, with the greater part of 
my library. Dr. Boyce impressed me as being a very hard student, 
and one who had found his true calling as a theological professor. 
It was a calling that stirred his enthusiasm and brought out his real 
power, thus proving that this was to be his life-work. Dr. Boyce 
was always interesting, thorough, and patient as a teacher. He 
took great interest in us, and we felt that he was our friend. We 
went to his recitation-room, which was in his own house, with the 
feeling that we were not only going there to be taught, but to have a 
good time with a warm-hearted, sympathizing friend and brother." 

Mr. Williams remembers among his fellow-students at 
the time A. K. Durham, John Morrall, and J. B. Hartwell. 
The last was a son of Jesse Hartwell (an early professor 
in the Furman Institution), and has labored as a mission- 
ary in China, and of late to the Chinese in California. 
During Boyce's second year J. F. B. Mays, of Virginia, 
was a theological student, and there were some others 
whose names cannot now be recovered. 

When formally inp.ugurated in July, 1856, he delivered 
an inaugural address entitled '* Three Changes in Theologi- 
cal Institutions," of which we shall have much to say in 
the next chapter. The young professor, still only twenty- 
nine years old, and convinced that he was to speak on 
vital themes at a time of crisis, prepared this address with 
great care. Three distinct forms of it appear among his 
manuscripts. 

At this meeting of the Board in July, E. T. Winkler 
was elected to be adjunct professor of theology and of the 
ancient languages, which would have made him a helper 
to Professor Edwards also. He declined, and in the fol- 
lowing January H. A. Tupper was again elected to the 
same position, and again declined. We can easily see 
now that this series of disappointments, fixing the convic- 
tion that he could not carry out his cherished plans in a 
theological department for a single State, was steadily 
leading Professor Boyce on towards the foundation of a 



PROFESSOR IN FURMAN UNIVERSITY. 107 

general theological seminary lor Southern Baptists, for 
which the way had been preparing through a dozen years. 
Four months after this last failure to get a colleague, he 
was at the educational convention in Louisville, throwing 
his whole soul into the project of establishing a common 
theological seminary at Greenville. 

Dr. H. A. Tupper would have made an uncommonly 
accurate and enthusiastic instructor in Hebrew and other 
Biblical studies. He mentioned in New York to the 
famous Dr. T. J. Conant, who had been his teacher at 
Hamilton, that he had been asked to consider a Hebrew 
professorship, and had declined, because no Hebraist. Dr. 
CJonant gave a noteworthy reply: '* You made a mistake. 
No professor knows much of his chair when he first takes 
it.'' Doubtless every professor feels thus, whether he 
begins teaching in youth or in later years. We may 
add a companion saying of Dr. Gessner Harrison, of the 
University of Virginia: ** A man ought to stop teaching a 
subject when he stops learning it." 

In February, 1857, Boyce writes to Mr. Tupper that he 
had been asked to consider an election as President of 
Mercer University, but did not encourage the idea. He is 
thinking of a trip to Europe as soon as he is free, ** either 
through resignation or additional help in the theological 
department, or the establishment of a Central Institu- 
tion." The Mercer appointment was urged upon him 
again in May, after the Louisville educational convention, 
with a salary of $2,500, which for that time and region was 
remarkable; but he positively declined. In August he was 
formally and unanimously elected to Mercer, but declined. 
Brethren were beginning to see clearly that here was a man 
capable of bringing things to pass, and they wanted him. 

Professor Boyce really taught in Furman University 
only two years. In July, 1857, he tendered his resigna- 
tion ; but the Board requested him to retain the office of 
professor, and use his time as he should think proper. He 



108 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

spent a considerable part of the next eight months in trav- 
elling through the State to raise an endowment for the 
projected theological seminary. About this period, or 
somewhat later, he gave gratuitous instruction in several 
subjects in the Greenville Female College, — for which 
the trustees voted him their thanks in 1860, — and for 
one year gratuitously discharged the duties of President of 
that institution. 

Among his sermons we find one on the recent death of 
A. P. Butler, United States Senator from South Carolina, 
who died May 25, 1867. The sermon was probably delivered 
in Greenville, where some relatives of the Senator were 
personal friends of the preacher. Judge Butler was a man 
of very high character, greatly honored and beloved, and 
since the death of Mr. Calhoun he had been very generally 
looked up to as a great bulwark and defender of the State 
in the senatorial conflicts. Mr. Boyce was by no means 
given to high-wrought eulogium, but he speaks in strong 
terms of the Senator's elevated character, intellectual re- 
sources, and patriotic spirit, adding as follows: "Well 
may the State mourn to-day the loss of such a man. Pure 
in patriotism, prudent in counsel, pre-eminent above all his 
contemporaries in that peculiar eloquence which silences 
and rebukes with withering sarcasm the false charges of 
unworthy foes, — in these days of misconception, if not of 
aspersion, of dangers from within and from without, the 
loss of no man in the national councils could be felt to be 
more serious. Especially may Carolina mourn the loss 
of her wise and noble son, of her peerless and invincible 
champion^" A year before his death. Senator Butler 
had been the subject of a very bitter personal attack in a 
speech from Senator Charles Sumner. Whether he had pro- 
voked this by something of his own " withering sarcasm," 
we know not. But Mr. Sumner was famous for terrific 
invective, and it is well remembered that he attacked Mr. 
Butler in terms so personal and insulting as to be thought 



PROFESSOR IN FURMAN UNIVERSITY. 109 

by the latter's frieads simply intolerable. Butler was 
sixty years old, and in feeble health. It was these cir- 
cumstances which led his nephew, Preston S. Brooks, a 
member of the lower House, to determine that he would 
avenge the insulting assault upon his uncle by physical 
chastisement of Mr. Sumner, Weary of waiting for him 
to come forth. Brooks finally rushed into the Senate cham- 
ber, after adjournment, and assailed Senator Sumner with 
a cane as he sat writing in his seat. This unjustifiable 
course turned a very general tide of sympathy in favor of 
Mr. Sumner, and has caused it to be frequently overlooked 
that the famous Senator sometimes indulged his powers 
of invective in ways quite overpassing the limits of pro- 
priety. How often men forget, in the heated animosities 
of discussion, that it is a cheap thing to be personally 
insulting, instead of convincing by earnest argument. If 
we are to have an end to physical assaults, as is so much 
to be desired, there ought to be at least some limit to 
verbal assaults. The hot passions of the period referred 
to — four years before the war — are revealed by the fact 
that many men in Carolina and elsewhere not only excused, 
but unreservedly commended Mr. Brooks's entire course, 
and many at the North glorified Mr. Sumner as a martyr 
to free speech, without ever tolerating the suggestion that 
all the same he had grievously insulted an aged and feeble 
Senator of the highest character. Even at the present day 
it is difficult to look back upon that period of varied con- 
flict and judge fairly of one side or the other. 

During these years Mr. Boyce also took interest in agri- 
culture, as his home in the edge of Greenville reached out 
into several fields of arable land. An agricultural monthly 
of February, 1858, reported that in Greenville District Pro- 
fessor James P. Boyce made on one acre fifty thousand nine 
hundred and thirty-five pounds of ruta-baga turnips and 
tops, and the men are named who weighed them. It also 



110 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

states that of wheat he made forty-four bushels and a peck 
to the acre, — a remarkable yield for the soil of that region, 
better suited to corn and cotton than to wheat. He also 
took interest in the introduction of improved stock; yet 
not as a mere gratification, for everything must pay, so 
that others might be encouraged to do likewise. 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINABY. Ill 



CHAPTER IX. 

FOUNDATION OP THE SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL 

SEMINARY. 1 

'^r^HE idea of a common theological institution for all 
X Southern Baptists is thought by some to have been 
first suggested by the eminent South Carolina minister, 
Dr. W. B. Johnson, while others ascribe it to the equally 
distinguished Dr. E. B. C. Howell, of Tennessee, and Dr. 
J. B. Jeter, of Virginia. It had doubtless arisen inde- 
pendently in the minds of various brethren in different 
States ; and things were slowly preparing for the movement 
in many ways.* 

Nearly every Baptist College at the South had at one 
time a theological department, like that of Furman Uni- 
versity, in which James P. Boyce taught. Indeed, several 
of them were begun as simply theological institutions, and 
afterwards grew into colleges (frequently called univer- 
sities, because it was hoped they would finally reach that 
character), commonly retaining the theological department, 
though sometimes dropping it. Thus, when the Baptist 

1 Some readers will be likely to exercise, in regard to this and the 
next chapter, what Sir Walter calls ** a faculty of judicious skipping." 
But persons interested in the Seminary, or in the general matter of 
theological education, may like to have the historical sketch here 
given. 

2 A brief historical sketch of these preparatory events was prefixed 
by Dr. Boyce to the Seminary's first catalogue ; and another was pub- 
lished by Dr. Manly in the "Seminary Magazine" for December, 1891. 
Other materials have been drawn from various sources and from personal 
recollection. ' 



112 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Seminary at Bichmond^ Ya., was about to be re-organized 
as Eichmond College, a Baptist member of the Legislature 
earnestly and successfully urged that they should drop the 
theological department, on the ground that for the Legis- 
lature to incorporate a theological institution squinted 
towards a union of Church and State, — so great was the 
sensitiveness on that subject which had survived in Vir- 
ginia from the fierce conflicts of half a century before. 
The legislator in question insisted that young preachers 
should study the Bible and theology under the guidance 
of older pastors, or that seminaries for the purpose could 
be conducted without incorporation. This sensitiveness 
passed away, and several theological seminaries of other 
denominations were afterwards incorporated in Virginia. 
In most States the theological department was retained, 
sometimes with two professors, as we have seen Boyce 
anxious to have it, but oftener with only one. Much 
earnest and helpful work was done for small classes in 
these various institutions, yet there were obvious and very 
serious difficulties, often keenly felt by the struggling 
professor himself. Several of these professors were among 
the most earnest advocates of the establishment of a com- i 

mon seminary, though each naturally wished that the 
institution with which he was connected might become 
the nucleus for such a new organization. 

When Basil Manly, Jr., graduated in 1844 at the Uni- 
versity of Alabama (of which his father, Basil Manly, Sr., 
was president), and determined to devote himself to the 
ministry, the question how he could be best prepared for 
the work was earnestly discussed between his father and 
Dr. John L. Dagg,^ then Professor of Theology in Mercer 
University at Penfield, Ga. (since removed to Macon). 

^ Dr. Dagg was a man of great ability and lovable character. His 
works are worthy of thorough study, especially his small volume, ** A 
Manual of Theology" (Amer. Bap. Pub. Soc), which is remarkable 
for clear statement of the profoundest truths, and for devotional sweet- 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 113 

Dr. Dagg, while residing in Tuscaloosa, Ala., had been 
associated with young Manly's early religious experience, 
so that the latter was inclined to study theology at Mercer 
under his direction. *'But he advised, '' says the narra- 
tive above mentioned, '^with characteristic earnestness 
and fidelity, that I should not content myself with that, 
but should seek at once the best advantages and the fullest 
course that could be procured. These, it was agreed, could 
be found then at the I^ewton Theological Institution, near 
Boston, Mass. When the disruption of 1845 occurred 
between Northern and Southern Baptists, in their volun- 
tary missionary organizations,— for the division extended 
only to these, and never to the actual relations of the 
churches, — it led to the withdrawal from Newton of the 
four Southern students who were there, S. C. Clopton, E. 
T. Winkler, J. W. M. Williams, and myself. The other 
three went directly into ministerial work,* while I deter- 
mined, as I was younger, to prosecute further preparatory 
study, and went, under the advice of my father, of Dr. 
Dagg, of Dr. Francis Wayland, and other friends, to 
Princeton Theological Seminary. , . . There was not at 
that period an institution at the South where anything 
like a full theological course could be enjoyed. It was 
felt that that state of things ought not to remain so. 
Articles were written in the leading papers by a number of 
eminent brethren bearing on the question, and suggesting 
different plans for relieving the situation." 

During the meeting in Augusta, Ga., in 1846, at which 
it was decided to organize the Southern Baptist Conven- 

ness. The writer of this Memoir may be pardoned for bearing witness 
that after toiling much, in his early years, as a pastor, over Enapp and 
Turrettin, Dwight and Andrew Fuller, and other elaborate theologians, 
he found this manual a delight, and has felt through life the pleasing 
impulse it gave to theological inquiry and reflection. A stepson of 
Dr. Dagg is the eminent professor of Moral Philosophy in the University 
of Virginia, Dr. Noah K. Davis. 
^ They had all been at Newton two years, Manly but one. 

8 



114 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

tion, a conference of brethren from various States was held, 
to consider the question of establishing a theological 
seminary of a high order. In 1847, at a meeting of the 
Indian Mission Association, held at Nashville, Tenn., the 
subject was again discussed by prominent brethren of 
Kentucky and Tennessee. When the Southern Baptist 
Convention was to meet on May 2, 1849,^ at Nashville, 
Dr. W. B. Johnson tried to secure a meeting of South 
Carolina delegates, at Aiken, on their way to Nashville, 
to consult about this matter, and with a view to put for- 
ward the Furman Theological Institution as the nucleus 
of a common seminary ; but this meeting was prevented by 
the general abandonment of the trip to Nashville. Tho 
trustees of Mercer University took action about the same 
time, favoring the idea of a concentration upon that in-^ 
stitution. Some scattered cases of cholera in Nashville » 
excited an alarm in distant States, being magnified into 
an epidemic, and kept away many of those who would have 
attended the Southern Baptist Convention at that place. 
But in the meeting there held, it is stated by Basil Manly, 
Jr., that ''Brethren R. B. C. Howell and J. B. Graves, 
whom I then met for the first time, were both enthu- 
siastic and zealous for the establishment of the new insti- 
tution. In fact, they thought the very time had come.'' 
Young Manly considered that matters were scarcely ripe 
for this desirable enterprise, and was challenged by Brother 
Graves, who was already a skilled and renowned debater, 
to discuss the matter before the Convention. He declined 
the discussion, and gives the following reasons: *'I did 
not want to be put into the false position of antagonizing 
the progressive movement for theological education, which 
I earnestly favored ; and I am not ashamed to say I dreaded 

1 Its first regular meeting was held at Richmond in 1846. Being at 
first triennial, like the old Triennial Convention of Baptists of the 
whole country, its next meeting fell in 1849. Afterwards it became 
biennial, and of late years annual. 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 115 

to cope with so vigorous and able an opponent as Brother 
Graves in an extempore debate." 

The Nashville Convention adjourned to meet in Charles- 
ton on May 23. In anticipation of this meeting in Charles- 
ton the '* Southern Baptist,'' of which Boyce was just then 
ceasing to be editor, republished two elaborate articles on 
this question from the *^ Monthly Miscellany," edited in 
Georgia by Joseph S. Baker. The first article was from 
R. B. C. Howell, D.D., then pastor in Nashville. He 
recognizes that many men have been, and many will be, 
very useful in the ministry, without formal education at 
college or seminary. But he argues that the progress of 
general knowledge, the necessity of encountering trained 
ministers of other denominations, the demand of many of 
our churches for better-prepared pastors, all combine to 
require a larger proportion of thoroughly educated Baptist 
ministers. He proposes a union of all existing Baptist 
theological schools in the Southern States at some central 
and accessible point; and if this be found impracticable, 
a new theological institution. This article was replied 
to in the May number of the '^ Miscellany " by Robert 
Ryland, President of Richmond College. He argues that 
a great central theological school is impracticable, for it 
would require $100,000, which cannot be had ; and as 
the inevitable failure of the attempt would produce general 
discouragement, he thinks the scheme had better be 
abandoned. He also inclines to regard a good college 
course as the main thing, since a man of trained mind 
could study theology for himself, as many had been doing 
with great advantage. He remarks upon the impatience 
of the young men, as often preventing a sufficiently long 
attendance upon college, and a great theological school 
would only increase the difficulty. This last, it may be 
observed, is really one of the grave difficulties in the way 
of American theological education, and particularly in the 
far Southern States, where the young grow up so early, and 



116 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

are so impatient to enter upon the permanent relations 
of life. 

At the Charleston meeting of the Convention, Boyce 
was one of the delegates, and Basil Manly, Jr., was 
Assistant Secretary. At a special and separate educa- 
tional meeting, Dr. W. B. Johnson, President of the 
S. B. Convention, read an elaborate essay in favor of 
establishing a central theological institution. Young 
Manly made an address upon the subject, the notes of 
which he published in the ''Seminary Magazine'' (ut 
supra). In this he stated that there were then seven 
theological professors, in as many Southern Baptist insti- 
tutions, having in all about thirty students. He argued 
the great advantage of a single central institution for 
economy and for efficiency. Some of his points under 
the latter head ought to be quoted, as showing how 
thoroughly the subject was understood by the men en- 
gaged in promoting the project. " (a) A division of labor 
can be had, so that the professors can give better and 
more thorough instruction, each taking his special subject. 
. . . (c) A larger number of professors, with their varied 
characteristics and excellences, would exert a stronger 
influence, and one not so liable to produce one-sided 
development, on the students. Strong and good men 
form their pupils, not only by what they teach, but by 
what they are ; and the more of such men we have 
together, the larger the benefit, (d) The mutual acquaint- 
ance of a large body of students, gathered from different 
parts of our country, would have a strong tendency to pro- 
mote a general union of Baptists in all good things, and 
to keep down local or sectional peculiarities and jealousies. 
(e) It would afford greater stimulus to study if the stu- 
dents came into contact with the picked men of a wider 
area, enjoying, many of them, the advantages of higher 
culture; and this would be more beneficial to^em than 
if they met simply men from their own State, and brought 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 117 

up under circumstances precisely like their own. ' ' He men- 
tions three plans which have been suggested: '*(!) Trans- 
fer all present theological funds to a new board, to establish 
one institution at some point to be agreed on. It is doubt- 
ful whether this can be legally done. (2) Let the funds 
remain in the hands of the present local or State boards, 
but let all agree to use the income for sustaining pro- 
fessors at some common centre. Hard to get all to agree. 
(3) Establish a new institution, with new board, new 
funds, possibly using some one of the existing theological 
departments as a foundation, but giving it into the charge 
of a board of trustees selected from all States of the 
Southern Baptist Convention. This last seems most 
likely to be carried into execution.'' 

After repeated consultation at meetings held during the 
sessions of the Convention, — for the Southern Baptist 
Convention itself never at any time took up the question, 
— a large committee was appointed (A. M. Poindexter, 
chairman) to correspond with the trustees of existing 
theological schools,, and propose to Conventions or Asso- 
ciations any means **they may believe calculated to secure 
in the Southern States a thorough and useful training of 
our young men who are entering the gospel ministry." 
There was no practical result of all this, but interest in 
the subject was slowly widening and deepening. 

Up to this time James P. Boyce had naturally taken 
no prominent part in the movement. He was only twenty- 
two years old, and had not yet begun his theological stud- 
ies at Princeton. But two or three times, while editing 
the ^' Southern Baptist " during the preceding months, 
he had expressed himself as favorable to the movement. 
The next action taken, as far as records are accessible, 
was at the Baptist General Association of Virginia, in 
June, 1854, proposing a meeting of *'the friends of theo- 
logical education "on May 11, 1855, at Montgomery, Ala., 
during the session of the Southern Baptist Convention. 



118 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOTCE. 

We hare seen in a preyious chapter that Bev. James P. 
Bojce, who had just resigned his pastorate in Soath 
Carolina, was present and actire in this Montgomery 
Convention. At the aocompaDjing educational meetings 
6. Manly, Jr., was Secretary, and a Committee of Cor- 
respondence was appointed, consisting of J. B. Jeter, 
J. P. Boyce, and others. Besolations offered hy A. M. 
Poindexter, and unanimously adopted, declared '' that in 
the opinion of this meeting it is demanded hy the inter- 
ests of the cause of truth that the Baptists of the South 
and Southwest unite in establishing a Theological Insti- 
tution of high grade," and proposed that a convention he 
held in regard to this object, at Augusta, Gra., in April 
of the next year, to he composed of representatives from 
the various colleges, educational societies, and State 
conventions. 

At this next meeting in Augusta, April, 1856, the 
attendance was of course chiefly from South Carolina and 
Georgia; but there were two from Washington city, six 
from Virginia, one from North Carolina, two from Flor- 
ida, four from Alabama, one each from Mississippi and 
Louisiana, and three from Tennessee. A very large 
proportion of these brethren, who came from a distance 
for this express purpose, were then, or afterwards became, 
men of distinction among Southern Baptists.^ It in- 
cluded two, Boyce and Manly, of the men destined to be 
the Seminary's first professors ; and three had been present 
at Montgomery. Dr. B. Manly, Sr., was made president, 
and so in each of the subsequent meetings until the 
formation of the Seminary. He was then again pastor in 
Charleston. A large and able committee, headed by the 
President, reported "that from various causes they find 
the subject embarrassed by difficulties at every point, 
which it is useless here to discuss, as it is impossible here 

1 The list is given in the introdaction to the Soathem Baptist 
Theol(^cal Seminary's first catalogue. 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 119 

to decide whether they are insuperable." The committee 
regarded "the attainment of the general object as para- 
mount, but could only recommend that still another 
convention of properly authenticated delegates, from the 
Southern colleges and theological schools under the control 
of Baptists, and from Baptist State Conventions, should 
be held the following year in Louisville, Ky., during 
the two days preceding the session of the Southern Bap- 
tist Convention. A committee, consisting of B. Manly, 
Sr., A. M. Poindexter, and J. B. Jeter, was directed to 
report to the said meeting at Louisville, (1) " what funds 
exist subject to the control of Baptists for theological 
instruction in each of the institutions of the South and 
Southwest ; whether the trustees or other parties holding 
legal control over these funds can and will contribute 
them in any form — and if any, what — to the uses of a 
common theological institution, to be located at any other 
point within or without the limits of their own States 
severally, should the aforesaid Convention, to assemble at 
Louisville in 1857, adjudge such different location best 
for the common good; whether these funds, in case they 
are limited to a spot, can and will be placed within the 
control of such a board of trustees as may be appointed 
by competent authority agreed upon for a common theo- 
logical institution." The same committee was authorized 
and requested (2) "to use adequate means for ascertaining 
what efforts will be made in favor of any location, already 
occupied or not, by the inhabitants and friends thereof, 
and what pecuniary subscriptions op pledges will be given 
as a nucleus, in case such location should be selected for the 
common institution; the object of all these inquiries being 
to ascertain, in the fullest manner possible, whether such a 
demand is felt for a common institution of this kind as may 
be a basis and encouragement for future united action." 

It is clear that this report to the Augusta meeting was 
written by James P. Boyce, who had been, since the pre- 



120 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

vious autumn, professor in the theological department of 
Furman University. The long series of apparently fruit- 
less meetings for consultation may now soon lead to some 
practical result, as pointed to by the close of the report. 
It soon became evident, as B. Manly, Jr., had held seven 
years before, that the existing theological departments in 
several States could not be combined into one institution; 
and the only hope lay in the establishment of an entirely 
new theological seminary, or of a seminary incorporat- 
ing into itself some one of the existing theological 
departments. 

Three months later, the State Convention of the Baptist 
Denomination in South Carolina met at Greenville, on 
July 26, 1856. Under the special leadership of Professor 
Boyce, this Convention proposed to the coming Educa- 
tional Convention at Louisville to establish at Greenville, 
S. C, a common theological institution, offering that the 
funds for theological purposes then held by the Trustees 
of Furman University (about thirty thousand dollars) 
should be turned over to the proposed institution, with 
additional funds to be raised in the State, which should 
make in all the sum of one hundred thousand dollars ; pro- 
vided that the said institution shall be further endowed 
with an additional sum of one hundred thousand dollars to 
be raised in other States. Thus something practical was 
at last proposed; and the question was whether in the next 
nine months the sum of seventy thousand dollars could be 
raised in South Carolina for the requisite endowment. 

On July 30 Professor Boyce, now completing his first ses- 
sion as theological professor in Furman University, deliv- 
ered his inaugural address. This important address was 
declared by A. M. Poindexter (present as Secretary of the 
Foreign Mission Board at Richmond) "the ablest thing of 
the kind he had ever heard, " and is certainly a very remark- 
able production for a young man of twenty-nine. Its ideas 
entered into the constitution, and chiefly determined the 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 121 

peculiarities^ of the Southern Baptist Theological Semi- 
nary. It will therefore be proper to give here its chief 
lines of thought, with a number of extracts. 

The address is entitled ** Three Changes in Theologi- 
cal Institutions." Summarily stated, the three proposed 
changes were the following: (1) A Baptist theological 
school ought not merely to receive college graduates, but 
men with less of general education, even men having only 
what is called tb common English education, offering to 
every man such opportunities of theological study as he is 
prepared for and desires. (2) Besides covering, for those 
who are prepared, as wide a range of theological study 
as could be found elsewhere, such an institution ought 
to offer further and special courses, so that the ablest 
and most aspiring students might make extraordinary 
attainments, preparing them for instruction and original 
authorship, and helping to make our country less depen- 
dent upon foreign scholarship. (3) There should be pre- 
pared an Abstract of Principles, or careful statement of 
theological belief, which every professor in such an insti- 
tution must sign when inaugurated, so as to guard against 
the rise of erroneous and injurious instruction in such a 
seat of sacred learning. 

He begins by deprecating any hasty conclusion from 
the sentiments he is about to utter that he is opposed to 
the thorough training and education of the Christian min- 
istry. We perceive that he foresaw how readily some 
people would imagine that to unite in the same institu- 
tion a partial theological education of some and a thorough 
theological education of others would be to lower the 
general standard. He wishes it distinctly understood of 
himself and the University Trustees he is addressing 
that they — 

" hold the education of the ministry a matter of the first impor- 
tance to the churches of Christ. 

" Indeed, did we think otherwise, we could no longer justly 



122 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

stand forth as exponents in any sense of the opinions upon this 
subject which prevail in our denomination. The Baptists are 
unmistakably the friends of education, and the advocates of an 
educated ministry. Their twenty- four colleges and ten depart- 
ments or institutions for theological instruction in this country, as 
well as the extent to which they have assisted in the establish- 
ment of general institutions, and of those under the control of 
other denominations, furnish sufficient testimony to the fact that 
they feel the value of education, and the importance, under God, 
of the means it affords for the better performance of the work of 
the ministry." 

Far from wishing to diminish this denominational inter- 
est, he says that he — 

'^ would see the means of .theological education increased. I 
would have the facilities for pursuing its studies opened to all who 
would embrac/e them ; I would lead the strong men of our ministry 
to feel that no position is equal in responsibility or usefulness to 
that of one devoted to this cause; and I would spread among^our 
churches such an earnest desire for educated ministers as would 
make them willing so to increase the support of the ministry as 
to enable all of those who are now forced, from want of means, to 
enter without the fullest preparation upon the active duties of the 
work, so far to anticipate the support they will i-eceive as to 
feel free to borrow the means by which their education may be 
completed." 

He wishes to propose certain changes which will widen 
the extent of theological education among us, without 
at all lowering the standard. The results thus far of 
establishing theological institutions have been extremely 
meagre. 

^^ The mind of the whole denomination has been awakened to 
the want of success under which we have suffered in our past 
efforts, and the best intellects and hearts in all our Southern 
bounds are directed to the causes of our failure, and to the means 
by which success may be attained. . . . The theological seminary 



SOUTHERN BAFnST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 123 

ha8 not been a popular institution. But few have sought its ad- 
vantages ; but few have been nurtured by the influences sent forth 
from it ; and while our denomination has continued to increase, 
and our principles have annually been spreading more widely, 
it has been sensibly felt that whatever ministerial increase has 
accompanied has been not only disproportionate to that of our 
membership, but has owed its origin in no respect to the influence 
of theological education. 

" And this seems to be the general law in the denomination. 
The complaint is not peculiar to our institution ; it seems to exist 
everywhere, despite all the efforts to counteract it which have 
been put forth, and not to be confined to Baptists, but to be the 
lamentation of all. You will see it in the organs of all the prom- 
inent denominations, and the cause of it is the subject of earnest 
inquiry." 

There is a greatly increased and ever-increasing de- 
mand for more ministers, but no corresponding increase 
in the number who present themselves. 

"Oh, were there ever a time when we should expect that God 
would answer the prayers of his churches, and overflood the land 
and the world with a ministry adequate to uphold his cause in 
every locality, it would seem to be now ! — now, when the wealth 
of the churches is sufficient to send the Gospel to every creature; 
now, when in the art of printing the Church has again received 
the gift of tongues; now, when the workings of God himself indi- 
cate his readiness to beget a nation in a day ; now, when the 
multiplication a thousand-fold of the laborers will still leave an 
abundant work for each ; but now, alas ! now, when our churches 
at home are not adequately supplied, when dark and destitute 
places are found in the most favored portions of our own land, 
when the heathen are at our very doors, and the cry is, ' Help ! 
help ! ' and there is no help, because there are not laborers enough 
to meet the wants immediately around us. 

" There are serious questions presented to us here : To what 
are these things due ? Have we not disregarded the laws which 
the providence and word of God have laid down for us ? And 
does he not now chastise us by sufiering our schemes to work 
out their natural results, that we, being left to ourselves, may 



124 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

see our folly, and retam to him and to his ways^ as the only 
means of strength f 

'^ In ascribing this evil for the most part to onr theolo^cal 
institutions, I would not appear unmindful of the other circum- 
stances upon which an increase of the ministry in our churches 
depends. Never would I consent to lift my voice upon such a 
subject as this without a distinct recognition of the sovereignty of 
God working his own will, and calling forth according to that 
will the many or the few with whose aid he will secure the bless- 
ing. Never could I proceed upon any assumption that would 
seem to take for granted that there is not the utmost need of more 
special awakening to devotion and piety in our churches, and a 
more fervent utterance of prayer for the increase of the laborers. 
Neither would I have it supposed that all that the theological 
institution can effect will be fully adequate to our wants, while 
our pastors neglect to search out and encourage the useful gifts 
which God has bestowed upon the members of their churches, or 
the churches themselves neglect the law of God which provides 
an adequate support for the ministry. But while due prominence 
is given to all of these circumstances, it yet appears that the 
chief cause is to be found in our departure from the way which 
God has marked out for us, and our failure to make provision for 
the education of such a ministry as he designs to send forth and 
honor." 

He wishes, therefore, as the first and principal change, to 
offer the opportunity of theological training to all classes 
of those whom God calls into the ministry, and not simply, 
as heretofore, to invite into theological schools those who 
have completed a college course. 

^* Permit me to ask what has been the prominent idea at the 
basis of theological educ^ation in this country. To arrive at it 
we have only to notice the requisitions necessary for entrance upon 
a course of study. Have they not been almost universally that 
the student should have passed through a regular college course, 
or made attainments equivalent thereto ? And have not even the 
exceptional cases been rare instances in which the Faculty or 
Board have, under peculiar circumstances, assumed the responsi- 
bility of a deviation from the ordinary course ? 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 126 

*' The idea which is promineut as the basis of this action is that 
the work of the ministry should be intrusted only to those who 
have been classically educated^ — an assumption which, singularly 
enough, is made for no other profession. It is in vain to say that 
such is not the theory or the practice of our denomination. It is 
the theory and the practice of by far the larger portion of those who 
have controlled our institutions, and have succeeded in engrafting 
this idea upon them, contrary to the spirit which prevails among 
the churches. They have done this, without doubt, in the exercise 
of their best judgment, but have failed because they neglected the 
better plan pointed out by the providence and word of God. 

'' The practical operation of this theory has tended in two ways 
to diminish the ranks of our valuable ministry. It has restrained 
many from entering upon the work, and has prevented the arrange- 
ment of such a course of study as would have enabled those who 
have entered upon it to fit themselves in a short time for valuable 
service. The consequences have been that the number of those 
who have felt themselves called of God to the ministry has been 
disproportioned to the wants of the churches ; and of that number 
but a very small proportion have entered it with a proper prepara- 
tion for even common usefulness. And only by energy and zeal, 
awakened by their devotion to the work, have they been able to 
succeed in their labors, and to do for themselves the work, the 
greater part of which the theological school should have accom- 
plished for them. 

"In his word and in his providence, God seems to have plainly 
iudicated the principle upon which the instruction of the ministry 
should be based. It is not that every man should be made a 
scholar, an adept in philology, an able interpreter of the Bible in 
its original languages, acquainted with all the sciences upon the 
various facts and theories of which God's word is attacked and 
must be defended, and versed in all the systems of true and false 
philosophy, which some must understand in order to encounter 
the enemies who attack the very foundations of religion, but that 
while the privilege of becoming such shall be freely offered to all* 
and every student shall be encouraged to obtain all the advantages 
that education can afford, the opportunity should be given to those 
who cannot or will not make thorough scholastic preparation to 
obtain that adequate knowledge of the truths of the Scriptures, 
systematically arranged, and of the laws which govern the inter- 



126 MEMOIB OP JAMES P. BOYCE. 

pretatiou of tlie text in the English version, which constitutes all 
that is actually necessary to enahle them to preach the Gospel, to 
build up the ehurchea on their most holy faith, and to instruct 
them in the practice of the duties isemnbaai upcm them. 

^^ The Scriptural qualifications for the ministry do, indeed, in- 
volve the idea of knowledge, but that knowledge is not of the 
sciences, nor of philosophy, nor of the languages, but of Glod and of 
his plan of salvation. He who has not this knowledge, though he 
be learned in all the learning of the schools, is incapable of preach- 
ing the word of God. But he who knows it, not superficially, 
not merely in those plain and simple declarations known to every 
believing reader, but in its power, as revealed in its precious and 
sanctifying doctrines, is fitted to bring forth out of his treasury 
things new and old, and is a workman that needeth not to be 
ashamed, although he may speak to his hearers in uncouth words 
or in manifest ignorance of all the sciences. The one belongs to 
the class of educated ministers, the other to the ministry of edu- 
cated men ; and the two things are essentially different.'' 

This difference he illustrates by contrasting John Bun- 
yan and Theodore Parker as preachers of the Gospel. 

^^ Who is the minister here, — the man of the schools, or the man 
of the Scriptures I Who bears the insignia of an ambassador for 
Christ ? Whom does God own ? Whom would the Church hear I 
In whose power would she put forth her strength ? And yet these 
instances, though extreme, will serve to show what may be the 
ministry of the educated man, and what that of the illiterate man, 
the educated minister. The perfection of the ministry, it is gladly 
admitted, would consist in the just combination of the two; but 
it is not the business of the Church to establish a perfect, but an 
adequate ministry ; and it is only of the latter that we may hope 
for an abundant supply. The qualification God lays down is the 
only one he permits us to demand } and the instruction of our 
theological schools must be based upon such a plan as shall afford 
this amount of education to those who actually constitute the 
mass of our ministry, and who cannot obtain more. • 

" The providential dispensation of God, in the administration of 
the affairs of his Church, fully illustrates the truth of this principle, 
so plainly in accordance with his word. That the education of the 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 127 

schools is of great advantage to the minister truly trained in the 
word of truth ^ has been illustrated by the labors of Paul; Angus- 
tin, Calvin, Beza, Davies, Edwards, and a host of others who 
have stood forth in their different ages the most prominent of all 
the ministry of their day, and the most efficient workmeo in the 
cause of Christ; while in the deven Apostles, in the mass of 
the ministry of that day, and of all other times and places, God 
has manifested that he will work out the greater portion of his 
purposes by men of no previous training, and educated only in 
the mysteries of that truth which is in Christ Jesus. 

<< Never has he illustrated that principle more fully than in 
connection with the progress of the principles of our own denom- 
ination. We have had our men of might and power who have 
shown the advantages of scholastic education as a basis, but we 
have also seen the great instruments of our progress to have been 
the labors of a much humbler class. Trace our history back, 
either through the centuries that have long passed away, or in 
the workings of God during the last hundred years, and it will be 
seen that the mass of the vineyard laborers have been from the 
ranks of fishermen and tax-gathererS; cobblers and tinkers, weavers 
and ploughmen, to whom God has not disdained to impart gifts, 
and whom he has qualified as his ambassadors by the presence of 
that Spirit by which, and not by might, wisdom, or power, is the 
work of the Lord accomplished. 

" The Baptists of America, especially, should be the last to 
forget this method of working on the part of their Master, and the 
firet to retrace any steps which would seem to indicate such forget- 
fulness. It has been signally manifested in the establishment of 
their faith and principles. The names which have been identi- 
fied with our growth have been those of men of no collegiate 
education, of no learning or rhetorical eloquence, of no instruction 
even in schools of theology. Hervey, Gano, Bennet, Semple, 
Broaddus, Armstrong, Mercer, who were these ? Men of education, 
of collegiate training, of theological schools ? Nay, indeed. All 
praise to those who did possess any of these advantages ! They 
were burning and shining lights. They hid neither talents nor 
opportunities, but devoted them to the cause they loved, and 
accomplished much in its behalf. . They maintained positions 
which perhaps none others could have occupied. But their number 
was not sufficient for the work of the Lord ; and he gave a multi- 



128 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOTCE. 

tode of others, — men who were found in labors oft, in wearisome 
toihi by day and by night, in heat or in cold, £acing dangers of 
every kind, enduring private and public persecution, travelling 
through swamp and forest to carry the glad tidings of salvation 
to the lost and perishing of our country. And the Baptists can 
neither forget them nor the principle taught us in their labors, by 
the providence of Grod. Whatever may be the course of those 
who have the training of thdr ministry, these ideas have sunk so 
deeply into the minds of the denomination that they can never 
be eradicated. And the day will yet come, perhaps has already 
come, when the churches will rise in their strength and demand 
that our Theological Institutions make educational provisions for 
the mass of their ministry. 

I have spoken of our ministry in the past, as composed of men 
whose success illustrates the theory of the need only of theologi- 
cal education. And yet it is apparent that they enjoyed none of 
the advantages for that purpose which are connected with the pre- 
sent arrangements for study. In the absence of these, however, 
they did attain to the amount of theological education which is 
essential. This was accomplished through excessive labor, exer- 
cised by minds capable of mighty efforts, and drawn forth under 
circumstances favorable to their development. When we look 
attentively at the record they have left us, or contemplate those of 
them whom God*s mercy to us permits yet to linger with us, we 
perceive that they were not the uneducated ministers commonly 
supposed. It is true, as has been said, that they had not the 
learning of the schools. A few books of theology — perhaps a 
single commentary — formed, with their Bibles, their whole ap- 
paratus of instruction, and measured the extent of their reading. 
But of these books they were wont to make themselves masters. 
By a course of incessant study, accompanied by examinations of 
the word of God, they were so thoroughly imbued with the pro- 
cesses and results of the best thoughts of their authors that they 
became, for all practicable purposes, almost the same men. And 
if, by any course of training, substantially of the same kind, our 
theological schools can restore to us such a mass ministry as was 
then enjoyed, the days of our progress and prosperity will be real- 
ized to have but just begun; and we shall go forward, by the 
help of the Lord, to possess the whole land which lieth before 
us. If by any means to these can be added at least fivefold the 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEBONARY. 129 

number of those now educated in the regular course of theology, 
I doubt not but it will be felt that the most sanguine hopes they 
have ever excited will be more than fulfilled.'' 

He now proceeds to inquire whether arrangements can 
actually be made for offering theological education to that 
great mass of ministers who have not been to college. 

" I believe, gentlemen, that it can be done ; and more than 
this, that in the attempt to do it we shall accomplish an abun- 
dantly greater work. Let us abandon the false principle which 
has so long controlled us, and adopt the one which God points 
out to us by his word and his providence, and from the very 
supplies God now gives to us may be wrought out precisely such 
a ministry. Those who have entered upon the work will be 
rendered fully capable to perform its duties, and numbers besides 
will be called forth to it who have heretofore been restrained by 
insurmountable obstacles." 

The suggestions next offered, as to which seminary- 
studies may be pursued by this great mass of students, 
need not be here introduced, since the more fully developed 
plans which a year or two later were wrought out, with his 
assistance, and introduced into the organization of the 
Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, will be given in 
onr next chapter. He now proceeds to restate the benefits 
of the change he is advocating: — 

" By the means proposed, the theological school will meet the 
wants of a large class of those who now enter the ministry with- 
out the advantages of such instruction, — a class equally with 
their more learned associates burning with earnest zeal for the 
glory of God and deep convictions of the value of immorUd 
souls, one possessed of natural gifts capable, even with limited 
knowledge, of enchaining the attention, affecting the hearts, and 
enlightening the minds of many who surround them ; a class 
composed, however, of those who, with few exceptions, soon find 
themselves exhausted of their materials, forced to repeat the same 
topics in the same way, and finally to aim at nothing but con- 
tinuous exhortation, bearing constantly upon the same point, or, 

9 



130 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

as is oftentimes the case, destitute of any point at all. In their 
present condition these ministers are of comparatively little value 
to the churches, having no capacity to feed them with the word 
of God, affording no attractions to bring a congregation to the 
house of God, and no power to set before them when gathered 
there such an exposition of the word of God as may, through 
the influences of his Spirit, awaken them to penitence, and lead 
to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. What the same men might 
become, were they better instructed, is apparent from the results 
attained by men of the same previous education, who, possessed of 
more leisure, or of a greater natural taste for study, have so 
improved themselves as to occupy positions of greater respecta- 
bility and usefulness. 

" The class of men whose cause I now plead before you is, of 
all those which furnish material for our ministry, that which most 
needs the theological training I would ask for it. Every argu- 
ment for theological schools bears directly in favor of its interests. 
Are such schools founded that our ministry may not be ignorant 
of the truth I Which class of that ministry is more ignorant than 
this ? Is it the object of their endowment that such education may 
be cheapened? Who are generally in more straitened circum- 
stances ? Is it designed to produce an abundant, able, faithful, 
and practical ministry? Where are the materials more abun- 
dant? Whence, for the amount of labor expended, will come 
more copious harvests ? So that it appears that whatever may 
be our .obligations to other classes, or the advantages to be gained 
in their education, the mere statement of them impresses upon us 
our duty, and the yet greater advantages to be gained by the 
education of that class which should comprise two thirds at least 
of those who receive a theological education. 

" The men who go from college walls untaught in theology 
have yet a training and an amount of knowledge of incalculable 
benefit. They can do something to make up their deficiencies. 
But what chance is there for these others ? They know not how 
to begin to study. Let one of them take up the Scriptures, and 
he finds himself embarrassed in the midst of statements which 
the Church for centuries after the Apostles had not fully har- 
monized, — statements which constitute the facts of theology, 
from which, in like manner with other sciences, by processes of 
induction and comparison, the absolute truth must be established. 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 131 

If to escape the difficalty he turns to a text-book of theology, he 
is puzzled at once by technicalities so easily understood by those 
better instructed that this technical character is totally unper- 
ceived. If he turns in this dilemma to our seminaries; he finds 
no encouragement to enter. A man of age, perhaps of family, he 
is called upon to spend years of study in the literary and scientific 
departments before he is allowed to suppose that he can profitably 
pursue theology. Straitened, perhaps, in his circumstances, and 
unwilling to partake of the bounty of others, he is told that he 
must study during a number of years, his expenses during which 
would probably exhaust fivefold his little store. With a mind 
capable of understanding and perceiving the truth, and of express- 
ing judicious opinions upon any subject, the facts of which he 
comprehends, he is told that he must pass through a course of 
study, the chief value of which is to train the mind, and which 
will only benefit him by the amount of knowledge it will inci- 
dentally convey. I can readily imagine the despair with which 
that man would be filled who, impelled by a conviction that it is 
his duty to preach the Gospel, contemplates under these circum- 
stances the provisions which the friends of an educated ministry 
have made for him. We know not how many affected by that 
sentiment are at this moment longing to enter upon preparation 
for a work which they feel God has intrusted only to those who, 
because of their knowledge of his word, have an essential ele- 
ment of aptness to teach. Be it yours, gentlemen, to reanimate 
their drooping hopes by opening up before them the means of 
attaining this qualification.'' 

But he holds that great benefits will also follow in 
regard to college-bred men. 

" The adoption of the true principle will not only tend, how- 
ever, to secure for us this education in the masses, which we need, 
but will also increase fivefold the number of those who will 
receive a thorough theological education. It will do this by the 
change of policy to which it will lead in reference to another class 
of our candidates for the ministry. 

'* We have among us a number of men who have enjoyed all 
the advantages of college life, but who have not been able, or 
willing, to spend the additional years needed for theological 



132 MEMOIR OF JAMES .P. BOYCE. 

study. These are possessed of far greater advantages than those 
of the other class, — men of polished education, of well-trained 
winds, capable of extensive usefulness to the cause of Christ ; but 
their deficiencies are plainly apparent, and readily traceable to the 
lack of a theological education. They are educated men, but not 
educated ministers; for, while familiar with all the sciences which 
form parts of the college currioQlum« they are ignorant for the 
most part of that very science which lies at the foundation of all 
their ministerial labors. The labors of their pastoral charges 
prevent such study of the word of God, either exegetically or 
systematically, as will enable them to become masters of its con- 
tents. Having entered upon the work of the ministry, however, 
they are forced to press forward, encountering difficulties at every 
step, — fearing to touch upon many doctrines of Scripture lest 
they misstate them, and frequently guilty of such misstatements 
even in the presentation of the simpler topics they attempt, 
because they fail to recognize the important connections which 
exist among all the truths of God. A few, indeed, possessed of 
giant minds, capable of the most accurate investigations, and 
filled with indomitable energy in the pursuit of what they feel to 
be needful, overcome every obstacle, and attain to knowledge 
often superior to that of others whose training has been more 
advantageous. But the vast majority find themselves burdened 
with a weight which they cannot remove, and by which they feel 
that their energies are almost destroyed. It is needless to say of 
these that the churches do not grow under their ministry ; that, 
not having partaken of strong meat, they cannot impart it ; and 
that their hearers pass on from Sabbath to Sabbath awakened, 
indeed, to practical duties, made in many respects efficient in co- 
operating with Christ's people, but not built up to this condition 
on their most holy faith, but upon other motives, which, however 
good, are really insufficient for the best progress, — at least of their 
own spiritual natures. Such is not the position in the ministry 
which four-fifths of our educated men should occupy. They will 
tell you themselves, gentlemen, that this should not be the case. 
If due to their own precipitancy, they will attach blame to them- 
selves ; but if it result from the exclusiveness of theological schools, 
their declaration is equivalent to testimony in favor of its removal, 
and of the admission of all who are capable of pursuing the regu- 
lar course to participate in its advantages. The disturbances felt 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 133 

about unsettled doctrines, the inability experienced to declare the 
whole counsel of God, the doctrinal mistakes realized as frequently 
committed, have long since convinced them that all of their other 
education is of but little value compared with that knowledge of 
theology which they have lost in its acquisition. 

** The theory of the theological school should doubtless be to 
urge upon every one to take full courses in both departments ; 
but when this is not possible, it should give to those who are 
forced to select between them, the opportunity of omitting the 
collegiate, and entering at once upon the theological, course. I 
see not how any one can rationally question that many, if not all, 
of those who are fitted for the Sophomore, or even the Freshman, 
class in college are prepared, so far as knowledge of books or 
languages is concerned, to enter with very great, though not with 
the utmost, profit upon the study of theology. The amount of 
Greek and Latin acquired is ample for this purpose. The study 
of Hebrew and Chaldee is commenced in the theological course } 
while that which is really the main object for the younger men in 
the collegiate course, the training and forming of the mind so 
far as at all practicable, will for the older students have been 
already accomplished, or for them and for the younger ones may 
be compensated in great part by that more thorough training in 
the studies of the Seminary necessary to all who would acquire 
such knowledge of theology as will make them fully acquainted 
with its truths." 

The views of the last paragraph and of that which fol- 
lows would not be acceptable to some college presidents 
and professors, and are not a necessary part of Dr. Boyce's 
general scheme. Perhaps the best practical course would 
be that seminary professors and students should never 
encourage college men — save in highly exceptional cases 
— to break off their college course and enter the seminary; 
and that college professors and students should not treat 
it as an unpardonable sin if some college men do quit 
college to enter a theological school at once. After all, the 
students must be treated as free ; and their own instinctive 
judgments, after proper counsel, will oftener lead them 
right than wrong. 



134 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

'^ Since this is the case, why compel this class to spend their time 
in studies which, however valuable in themselves, have bat a 
secondary importance, compared with those they are made to 
supersede f If there be any who will pursue the studies of both 
departments, their number will never be diminished by the adop- 
tion of the plan proposed* If it will, better that this be so than 
that so many others neglect theology. But we may confidently 
believe that the results will only be to take from the collegiate 
course those who would neglect the other, and cause them to 
spend the same number of years in the study of that which has an 
immediate bearing upon their work. It is simply a choice as to 
certain men between a thorough literary and a thorough theo- 
logical course. The former may make a man more refined and 
intelligent, better able to sustain a position of influence with the 
world, and more capable of illustrating, by a wide range of 
science, the truth he may have arrived at ; the latter will improve 
his Christian graces, will impart to him the whole range of 
revealed truth, will make him the instructor of his people, truly 
the man of God prepared in all things to give to each one his 
portion in due season." 

He now concludes his discussion of the first change 
proposed, by insisting that it will involve no radical alter- 
ations in the working of a theological school, and that it 
will promote just views of ministerial education. 

" The same course of Systematic Theology will be sufficient for 
all classes, the advantages possessed by those more highly edu- 
cated enabling them simply to add to the text-book or lectures 
the examination of Turrettin or some other prescribed author. 
In the study of Scripture Interpretation, it 'may be necessary to 
make two divisions, though experience will probably prove the 
practicability even of uniting these. There will be needed for all 
classes the same instruction in the Evidences of Christianity, in 
Pastoral Theology, in the analysis of texts, the construction of 
skeletons, and the composition of essays and sermons ) and in all 
of these the classes may be united. So that, really, we shall only 
so far revolutionize the institution as to add numbers to the 
classes, and permit some of those whom we add to take up those 
studies only which a plain English education will enable them to 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 136 

pursue profitably. All the inconveuieDce which may accrue 
therefrom will be gladly endured by all for the benefit of the 
masses, and because of the mutual love and esteem which, by 
their throwing together, wiU be fostered between the most highly 
educated and the plainest of our ministry. 

^' In adopting this change we are so far from saying that educa- 
tion is unnecessary that we proclaim its absolute necessity. We 
undertake, however, to point out what education it is that is thus 
essential, and what that which is only valuable ', and while we 
urge upon all to acquire all useful knowledge as an aid to that 
work, we point out the knowledge of the word of God as that 
which is first in importance, and we provide the means by which 
this second class may pursue its appropriate studies, and those by 
which adequate theological instruction may be given to the four- 
fifths of our ministry who now enjoy no means of instruction. 
And we look with confidence for the blessing of God upon this 
plan, not because we believe that he favors an ignorant ministry, 
but because, knowing that ho requires that his ministry be 
instructed, and that by his word and his providence he has 
pointed out the nature of the learning he demands, we believe 
that the plan proposed is based upon these indications ; and that 
his refusal to send forth laborers has been chastisement inflicted 
upon us that we may be brought back to his own plans, which we 
have abandoned for those of men.'' 

The second change which Professor Boyce suggests is 
that after completing the usual course of theological study, 
some students should be encouraged to remain for further 
graduate studies. A proper provision for such graduate 
studies would tend to promote theological scholarship in 
our country. 

" It has been felt as a sore evil that we have been dependent in 
great part upon the criticism of Germany for all the more learned 
investigations in Biblical Criticism and Exegesis, and that in the 
study of the development of the doctrine of the Church, as well as 
of its outward progress, we have been compelled to depend upon 
works in which much of error has been mingled with truth, owing 
to the defective standpoint occupied by their authors. 

" And although the disadvantages of American scholars have 



\ 



136 MEMOm OF JAMES P. BOTCE. 

been realized, arising from the want of adequate theological 
libraries, as well as from the inaccessible natnre of much other 
material, it has been felt that it has been in great part due to the 
limited extent to which the study of theological science has been 
pursued among us, that we have been so much dependent upon 
others, so unable to push forward investigations for ourselves, and 
even so inadequately acquainted with the valuable results of others 
who have accomplished the work for us. But a few perhaps have 
participated in this sentiment, but the evil which awakens it is 
not, therefore, the less momentous." 

In this matter Baptists ought to feel themselveB specially 
concerned. 

'* It is an evil which may be regarded as pervading the whole 
field of American religious scholarship, and the remedy should be 
sought alike by all denominations. It is a matter of the deepest 
intei'est to all that we should be placed in a position of indepen- 
dence in this matter, and that our rising ministry should be 
trained under the scholarship of the Anglo-Saxon mind, which, 
from its nature, as well as from the circumstances which surround 
it, is eminently fitted to weigh evidence, and to decide as to its 
appropriateness and its proper limitations. But the obligation 
resting on the Baptist denomination is far higher than this. It 
extends not merely to matters of detail, hut to those of vital interest. 
The history of religious literature and of Christian scholarship 
has been a history of Baptist wrongs. We have been overlooked, 
ridiculed, and defamed. Critics have committed the grossest per- 
versions, violated the plainest rules of criticism, and omitted points 
which could not have been developed without benefit to us. His- 
torians who have professed to write the history of the Church 
have either utterly ignored the presence of those of our faith, or 
classed them among fanatics and heretics ; or, if forced te acknowl- 
edge the prevalence of our principles and practice among the 
earliest churches, have adopted such false theories as to church 
power, and the development and growth of the truth and principles 
of Scripture, that by all, save their most discerning readers, our 
pretensions to an early origin and a continuous existence have 
been rejected. 

^' The Baptists in the past have been entirely too indifferent to 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAt SEMINARY. 137 

the position they thus occupy. They have depended too much 
upon the known strength of their principles, and the ease with 
which from Scripture they could defend them. They have therefore 
neglected many of those means which extensive learning affords, 
and which have been used to great advantage in support of other 
opinions. It is needless to say, gentlemen, that we can no longer 
consent to occupy this position. We owe a change to ourselves, 
— as Christians, bound to show an adequate reason for the dif- 
ferences between us and others ; as men of even moderate 
scholarship, that it may appear that we have not made the gross 
errors in philology and criticism which we must have made if 
we be not right ; as the successors of a glorious spiritual ancestry, 
illustrated by heroic martyrdom, by the profession of noble prin- 
ciples, by the maintenance of true doctrines ; as the Church of 
Christ, which he has ever preserved as the witness for his truth, 
by which he has illustrated his wonderful ways, and shown that 
his pi-omises are sure and steadfast. Nay, we owe it to Christ 
himself, whose truth we hold so distinctively as to separate us 
from all others of his believing people ; to whom we look con- 
fidently to make these principles triumphant ; for whose sake, on 
their account, men have been ever found among us willing to sub- m 
mit to banishment, imprisonment, or martyrdom ; and for whose 
sake, in defence of the same truth, we are willing now to bear the 
scorn and reproach, not of the world only, but even of those who 
love our Lord Jesus Christ." 

He proceeds to inquire how this object can be 
accomplished : — 

" It is scarcely necessary to remark that any plan which can 
be devised must be based upon the presence in the institution 
of a good theological library, — one which shall not only be 
filled with the gathered lore of the past, but also endowed with 
the means of annual increase. Without this, no institution 
can pursue extensive courses of study, or contribute anything 
directly to the advancement of learning. The professor is cut off 
from valuable and necessary books, and the student hindered 
from making even the least important investigations in the 
course of study he is pursuing. 

" The plan I propose to you supposes the possession of such a 



138 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

library; and this, even if it be such, is its only pecnliar item of 
expense. Taking the idea from the provision made in some of 
our institutions for the degree of Master of Arts, it has occurred 
to me that an additional course of study might be provided for 
those who may be graduates of theological institutions. This, 
course might extend over one or two years, according to the 
amount of study the student may propose to accomplish. In 
it the study of the Oriental languages might be extended to the 
Arabic and the Syriac. The writing of exegetical theses would 
furnish subjects for investigation, and give a more ample acquaint- 
ance with the original text and with the laws of its interpretation. 
The text-books or lectures studied in Systematic and Polemic 
Theology could be compared with kindred books, the theories of 
opponents examined in their own writings, and notes taken for 
future use from rare and costly books. These and similar studies, 
which should be laid down in a well-digested course, would bestow 
accurate scholarship, train the student in the methods of origi- 
nal investigation, give him confidence in the results previously 
attained, and open to him resources from which he might draw 
extensively in interpreting the Scriptures, and in setting forth the 
truths they contain. The result would be that a band of scholars 
would go forth, from almost every one of whom we might expect 
valuable contributions to our theological literature. 

^' It is to be expected that but few would take advantage of 
this course. Such would certainly be the case at first The only 
result would be that but little additional provision will be needed. 
Two additional recitations a week for each of three or four pro- 
fessors would be more than adequate. And though such students 
should not be more than a twentieth part of those graduated, 
though not, more than one each year, will not their value to 
the denomination more than counterbalance the little additional 
attention which will thus be given f ^ 

It is then further shown that these arrangements would 
help to train missionaries, such as may wish to translate the 
Scriptures into heathen languages, or to encounter learned 
and able teachers, heathen or Mohammedan. This would 
also give special training of various kinds to men suited 
to become professors in our colleges, seminaries, etc. 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 139 

The third change, proposed hy this address, to he made 
in theological institutions was that a '* declaration of 
doctrine " should he adopted, which persons assuming 
professorships should he required to sign, pledging them- 
selves to teach in accordance with, and not contrary to, 
the doctrines thus laid down. It is urged as very desir- 
able that every particular church among us should have 
some statement of doctrine in which its members may be 
instructed. It is shown to be still more important to 
examine carefully the men about to be ordained as min- 
isters, in order to see whether they are sound in the 
faith, — a duty generally recognized among us, and more 
or less faithfully performed by churches and ordaining 
presbyteries. And then it is argued, a fortiori, that above 
all we ought to ascertain and guard the doctrinal sound- 
ness of a theological instructor. 

"But the theological professor is to teach ministers, — to place 
the truth, and all the errors connected with it, in such a manner 
before his pupils that they shall arrive at the truth without dan- 
ger of any mixture of error therewith. He cannot do this if he 
have any erroneous tendencies, and hence his opinions must be 
expressly affirmed to be, upon every point, in accordance with 
the truth we believe to be taught in the Scriptures.'' 

This point is strongly set forth and strikingly illus- 
trated, as follows: — 

" It is with a single man that error usually commences ; and 
when such a man has influence or position, it is impossible to 
estimate the evil that will attend it. Ecclesiastical history is full 
of warning upon this subject. Scarcely a single heresy has ever 
blighted the Church which has not owed its existence or its 
development to that one man of power and ability whose name 
has always been associated with its doctrines. And yet, seldom 
has an opinion been thus advanced which has not subsequently 
had its advocate in every age, and which in some ages has not 
extensively prevailed. 



140 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

'' The history of our own denomination in this ooantry famishes 
an illostration. Playing upon the prejadices of the weak and 
ignorant among our people, decrying creeds as an infringement 
upon the rights of oonscience, making a deep impression hy 
his extensive learning and great abilities, Alexander Campbell 
threatened at one time the total destruction of our faith. Had 
he occupied a chair in one of our theological institutions, that 
destruction might have been completed. There would have been 
time to disseminate widely and fix deeply his principles, before it 
became necessary to avow them publicly ; and when this neces- 
sity arrived, it would have been attended by the support of the 
vast majority of our best educated ministers. Who can estimate 
the evil which would then have ensued ? 

** The danger which threatened in this instance may assail us 
again. Another such, and yet another, may arise, and, favored 
by better circumstances, may iustil false principles into the minds 
of his pupils, and, sending them forth to occupy the prominent 
pulpits of the land, may influence all our churches, and the fair 
fabric of our faith may be entirely demolished. 

''This it is that should make us tremble when we think of our 
theological institutions. If there be any instrument of our denom- 
inational prosperity which we should guard at every point, it is 
this. The doctrinal sentiments of the Faculty are of far greater 
importance than the proper investment and expenditure of its 
funds; and the trusts devolved upon those who watch over its 
interests should in that respect, if in any, be sacredly guarded." 

He thus concludes as to the third proposed change : — 

''It is therefore, gentlemen, in perfect consistency with the 
position of Baptists, as well as of Bible Christians, that the test 
of doctrine I have suggested to you should be adopted. It is 
based upon principles and practices sanctioned by the authority 
of Scripture and by the usage of our people. In so doing, you 
will be acting simply in accordance with propriety and righteous- 
ness. You will infringe the rights of no man, and you will secure 
the rights of those who have established here an instrumentality 
for the production of a sound ministry. It is no hardship to 
those who teach here to be called upon to sign the declaration of 
their priuciples ; for there are fields of usefulness open elsewhere 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 141 

to every man, and none need accept yoar call who cannot con- 
scientiously sign your formulary. And while aU this is true, yoa 
will receive hy this an assurance that the trust committed to yoa 
by the founders is fulfilling in accordance with their wishes, 
that the ministry that go forth have here learned to distinguish 
truth from error, and to embrace the former, and that the same 
precious tmths of the Bible which were so dear to the hearts ot 
its foanders, and which I trust are equally dear to yours, will be 
propagated in our churches, giving to them vigor and strength, 
and causing them to flourish by the godly sentiments and emo- 
tions they will awaken within them. May God impress you 
deeply with the responsibility under which you must act in 
reference to it ! " 

Among the closing paragraphs of the address, the fol- 
lowing ought assuredly to be quoted. We have seen that 
B. Manly, Jr., had made similar suggestions in his address 
at Charleston ; and experience goes to show that the point 
in question is of very great importance* 

'^ It will be perceived that the great peculiarity of the plans 
prt>posed is that they contemplate gathering all our students 
into a single institution. The courses of study are all to be 
pursued conjointly. The several classes of young men are to be 
thrown together in the pursuit of their respective studies. It is 
for this, as opposed to any other method, that I would strenuously 
contend. The object is not the centralization of power in a single 
institution, for I believe the adoption of these changes will make 
many seminaries necessary. I advocate a single one now, because 
the demand for more than one does not exist. But it is that our 
young men may be brought into closer contact with each other. 
Various prejudices are arising in our denomination among the 
various classes of the ministry. This would be my scheme to 
remove them. The young men should be so mingled together as 
to cause each class to recognize the value of the others, and thus 
truly to break down entirely any classification. Those who take 
the plain English course wiU see the value of learning in the 
increased facilities for study it affords to their more favored 
companions. Those who have this learning will see that many 



142 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

of the other class are their superiors in piety, in devotion to God, 
iu readiness to sacrifice for his caase, in willingness to be counted 
as nothing, so that Christ may be preached. The recognition of 
such facts will be mutually beneficiaL The less-educated min- 
isters will feel that they have the confidence and affection of all 
their brethren; the bettor-educated will know the esteem with 
which they are regarded; and the bonds of mutual love will 
yearly grow stronger, until -we shall see a ministry of different 
gifts, possessed of extensive attainments, thrown into entirely 
different positions in the field, yet laboring conjointly, mutually 
aiding and supporting one another in advancing the kingdom of 
Christ, in preaching his glorious gospel, in calling forth laborers 
into his field, and in fostering those influences which shall tend 
to the education of a sound and practical and able ministry/' 

This address by Professor Boyce proved to be epoch- 
making in the history of theological education among 
Southern Baptists. He was accustomed to say, in conver- 
sation on the subject, that his ideas had been partly 
derived from his revered instructor. President Wayland, of 
Brown University, to whom we have seen that he always 
felt himself in many ways very greatly indebted. Besides 
the general effect of his lectures and conversations upon 
the quite similarly constituted mind of young Boyce when 
a student, President Wayland had, three years before the 
delivery of Boyce's inaugural, given a notable address at 
the University of Eochester, by request of the Kew York 
Baptist Union for Ministerial Education, entitled, "The 
Apostolic Ministry." In this he had shown that our strong 
denominational belief in a divine call to the ministry 
ought to have an important bearing upon our methods of 
ministerial education. 

" If we are willing to follow, and not to lead, the Spirit of 
God, — that is, if we educate no man for the ministry until we are 
satisfied, not that he may he, but that he has been, called of God 
to the work of preaching the Gospel, — we shall always have 
among our candidates a large number of those who have passed 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 143 

the period of youth; and for whom the Btadies of youth would 
be unsuitable, if not useless. Yet these are the very men to 
whom appropriate culture would be specially valuable. Others, 
in various degrees, have been more favored with preparatory 
education, and the means for more extended discipline. The 
means and advantages of our candidates must therefore be exceed- 
ingly dissimilar. If, then, we would labor to give to the ministry 
the means of improvement, we must provide those means for 
them all. A system of ministerial education adapted to the con- 
dition of but one in twenty of our candidates, commences with 
the avowed intention of doing but one- twentieth part of its work, 
and of helping those only who have the least need of its assis- 
tance. We should therefore provide, for all our brethren whom 
God has called to this service, the best instruction in our power; 
adapted, as far as possible, not to any theoretical view, but to the 
actual condition of the mass of our candidates, leaviilg each indivi- 
dual, in the exercise of a sound and pious discretion, to deter- 
mine the extent to which he is able to avail himself of our 
services. While means should be fully provided for pursuing an 
extended course of education, we must never lose sight of the 
large number of our brethren to whom an extended course would 
be impossible.'' 

These views of Dr. Wayland excited at the time consi- 
derable newspaper discussion on the part of educators, the 
discourse being printed in tract form and widely circulated. 
They probably had some effect upon the existing Baptist 
Theological Schools, in making them less unwilling to 
receive students for a partial course. But our Baptist 
Colleges and Theological Seminaries in America had fol- 
lowed very closely the Congregational and Presbyterian 
pattern, built upon ideas brought from England and 
Scotland;, and any departure from the curriculum, and 
introduction of men imperfectly prepared, to pursue an 
irregular course, was generally regarded with disfavor 
on the part of presidents and professors. Dr. Wayland 
had several years earlier made an earnest effort to intro- 
duce different ideas and methods, tljrough the re-organiza- 



144 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

tion, in 1850, of Brown University. He travelled over the 
United States, visiting many universities and colleges, 
and finally succeeded in introducing at Brown a thoroughly 
elective method, quite similar to that which for twenty-five 
years had been in successfi^l operation at the University 
of Virginia.^ We have seen that he recognized in "The 
Apostolic Ministry " the propriety of allowing a theologi- 
cal student to exercise some discretion as to the extent 
of his theological studies. In a famous series of articles 
published in " The Examiner, " and collected into a volume 
in October, 1856, entitled '^ Principles and Practices of 
Baptist Churches," he speaks sarcastically about the exist- 
ing theological seminaries : — 

" If, however, a suggestion in respect to them might be made 
without presumption, I would ask, could they not be rendered 
more efficient ? By the tables already referred to, they graduate 
annually about one student and a half to each officer of instruc- 
tion. Could not this proportion be somewhat exceeded? The 
labor of teaching such classes cannot be oppressive; might not 
other courses, adapted to other classes of students, be introduced f 
So long as our seminaries admit none but those who have pursued 
a collegiate course or its equivalent, their number of students must 
be small, and the labor of instructors not burdensome. ... If it 
might be done without offence, I would ask, might not more 
direct effort be exerted to make preachers ? — I say preachers, in 
distinction from philologists, translators, professors, teachers, and 
writers on theology. Other professional schools aim to render 
men able in the practice of their several professions. . . . Why 
should not the theological school aim more simply at making 
good and effective preachers ? Men need instruction and practice 

^ The writer remembers the feeling of denominational pride with 
which, as a student of the University of Virginia, he was introduced to 
the famous president and author, and gazed upon his commanding form 
and noble face while he sat in a lecture-room. Dr. Gcssner Harrison 
and Dr. McGuffey explained to Dr. "Wayland, in extended conversa- 
tions, sought by him, the nature and working of Mr. Jefferson's plans 
of elective education. 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 145 

in the every-day daties of the ministry. They should acquire the 
power ^ and it is a great power — of unwritten, earnest, effective 
speech." 

He expressed gratification that in Newton particularly 
arrangements were now made for the especial improvement 
of theological students who have not passed through a 
collegiate course. 

While Dr. Wayland's ideas were in general rejected, we 
thus perceive that they had some effect; and through the 
years that have followed, professors in various Baptist 
Theological Schools have earnestly striven to do their best 
for the less-prepared students. They have been embarrassed 
in this by the fact that all their work rested on the basis 
of a curriculum; but, whether cheerfully or reluctantly, 
they have labored in this direction. The recent exclusion 
from the Eochester Theological Seminary of all who have 
not been prepared by a college course or its equivalent; 
the arrangement in the Newton Theological Institution 
by which less-prepared students are entirely separated from 
the others, and taught in separate classes ; and various other 
indications, — show that our able and honored Baptist breth- 
ren engaged in theological education have deeply felt the 
diffictdty of admitting irregulars upon the basis of a curri- 
culum. And yet the ideas set forth by Dr. Wayland have 
not ceased to live among thoughtful Baptists of the great 
North and Northwest, Indeed, he and Professor Boyce 
were but interpreting the fundamental Baptist ideas of the 
ministry. And wherever Baptists have striven to confine 
their ministry to men regularly trained in college and 
seminary, they are still comparatively limited in numbers ; 
while, on the contrary, wherever they have encouraged every 
man to preach who felt called of God to preach, whom his 
church indorsed as suitable, and a presbytery as sound, 
and whom the people were willing to hear, — there the 
Baptists have grown rapidly, and are a people mighty, at 

10 



146 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

least in numbers, and great in their possible future. No 
one need be surprised if among our Northern brethren 
there should come any year a new utterance of ideas like 
those of Dr. Way land, and new plans for getting hold in 
some way of the many ministers who cannot — or (what is 
for independent Baptists equivalent) will not — go through 
a regular course at college and seminary. 

Some Baptist educators in the Southern States were in 
like manner wedded to the idea of restricting our exertions 
to the thorough training of well-prepared men; but in 
general the history of Baptist progress in the South and 
Southwest — the vast number of ** self-educated'' or *^ un- 
educated " ministers who had been very useful, together 
with the spirit of local independence which pervades great 
agricultural regions, and the disposition of Southern na- 
tures to delight much in the oratorical fervor which may 
be manifested without high mental training — led many 
thoughtful men among Southern Baptists, in the ministry 
and out of it, to see the wisdom of Boyce's ideas. More- 
over, these ideas were embodied in a representative quali- 
fied in an extraordinary manner — by gifts and character, 
by training and personal influence, by youthful vigor, com- 
bined with practical wisdom — to carry these ideas into 
effect. A long struggle was before him, which if foreseen 
might well have been deemed hopeless. But we can now 
perceive that in him, and the older and younger men of 
whom he would become the leader, and in the situation 
and aspirations of Southern Baptists, there existed the 
elements of success. 

We return now to the proposition — which, at the sug- 
gestion of Professor Boyce, had been made by the South 
Carolina Baptist State Convention, and directed to be 
laid before the proposed convention in Louisville in the 
following May — that the South Carolina Baptists would 
give one hundred thousand dollars for the endowment of 
a common theological institution at Greenville (incor- 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 147 

porating therein the theological department of Furman 
University), provided that an additional hundred thousand 
should he raised elsewhere. 

The Educational Convention held in Louisville, May, 
1857, in connection with the sessions of the Southern 
Baptist Convention, included eighty-eight delegates, from 
Maryland, Virginia, and the Carolinas, from Georgia and 
Alabama, from Mississippi, Louisiana, and Arkansas, 
from Tennessee and Kentucky. Much interest was ex- 
cited by the fact that a definite and generous proposition 
had been made by the South Carolina brethren, together 
with the assurances of Professor Boyce and others that the 
money needed from that State could be raised. A great 
desire was felt to push the now hopeful movement into 
practical operation as speedily as possible. After much 
earnest discussion, it was agreed to propose the establish- 
ment of the desired theological institution at Greenville, 
S. C, in the following year, provided that the sum of one 
hundred thousand dollars should be raised in that State by 
May 1, 1858, ready to be placed in the hands of trustees. 
The interest of this money (seven thousand) was to be 
used for the support of three professors, for the purchase 
of books (not exceeding five hundred dollars annually), 
and for paying a proper agency in the other States to 
secure the hundred thousand dollars which was to be raised 
elsewhere ; provided, also, that recitation and lecture rooms 
could be secured in Greenville free of rent for some years. 
It was further arranged that if the remaining hundred 
thousand should not be made up within three years, then 
the endowment furnished from South Carolina should 
revert to the Furman University, for theological purposes, 
and the contributions collected elsewhere to their respec- 
tive donors. These arrangements show Boyce's hand 
throughout. They were bold and inspiring, and yet 
carefully guarded. It was then proposed that a special 
educational convention should be held at Greenville in 



148 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

May, 1858, to organize the desired institution, provided 
the South Carolina Baptist Convention should accept 
these conditions. Committees of five were appointed to 
prepare a plan of organization, to nominate professors, to 
secure from the South Carolina Legislature an appropriate 
charter, to provide for a suitahle agency in other States, 
and to issue an address to Southern Baptists. In an- 
nouncing the Committee on Plan of Organization, the 
President, Dr. B. Manly, Sr., said apologetically that he 
had appointed comparatively young men, because it was 
proposed to form a new institution suited to the wants of 
our own ministry, and young men were more likely to be 
successful in devising new plans. So he announced J. P. 
Boyce, J. A. Broadus, B. Manly, Jr., E. T. Winkler, 
'William Williams. This is worth mentioning because, 
as will hereafter appear, these five were destined to be 
elected as professors in the Seminary, and four of them to 
serve. Probably the wise old heads of the Convention 
had their plans already; but certainly one member of the 
committee had no thought of such a thing. 

Dr. Jeter prepared a ringing address to Southern Bap- 
tists. He showed that a common institution was de- 
manded, and brethren had for a number of years been 
earnestly striving to compass its establishment. The 
scheme now proposed was feasible, having been unani- 
mously approved by a body ** which commenced its ses- 
sion with very conflicting views. *' It was also eminently 
promising, for Greenville would be a very desirable loca- 
tion, as to accessibility, health, and cheapness of living. 
He stated that the Seminary was to be organized upon a 
new plan : — 

'* Being free from the shackles imposed by the old systems and 
established precedents, and ha^nng all the lights of ejcperience 
and observation to guide us, we propose to found an institution 
suited to the genius, wants, and circumstances of our denomina* 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 149 

Hon; in which shall be taught with special attention the trae 
principles of expounding the Scriptures and the art of preaching 
efficiently the Gospel of Christ." 

He guarded a point on which some natural apprehension 
was felt : — 

** This scheme will interfere with no existing institution. It 
does not propose to curtail the labors or influence of any of our 
State colleges. Some of them will probably continue to give, as 
they have heretofore done, a limited course of theological instruc- 
tion, and those who find it desirable will avail themselves of its 
benefits. But it is proposed in the GreenviUe institution to 
furnish a more thorough course of instruction than any as yet 
adopted in our State seminaries ; and also perhaps a more limited 
course for those students whose age and circumstances will not 
permit them to pursue an extended course. ... On the whole, 
we cannot but think that the divine hand has guided us thus 
far. Obstacles seemingly insuperable have been removed out of 
the way, conflicting opinions and interests have been harmonized, 
and a bright and cheering prospect of success has suddenly opened 
before us. It only remains that we should trustfully follow the 
divine guidance." 

In July the State Convention of the Baptist denomina- 
tion in South Carolina adopted the Louisville modification 
of their proposal, and appointed Rev. J. P. Boyce as agent 
to collect the needed $70,000. He tendered his resigna- 
tion as professor in the University, but the Trustees 
declined to accept, and authorized him to act according to 
his own judgment in regard to the agency work during the 
coming year. He probably had very little time for teach- 
ing in the course of the next session. We know that in 
his two-horse buggy, driven by a servant, he travelled far 
and wide over South Carolina, visiting out-of-the-way 
churches, and planters on remote plantations, and throwing 
all the energies and resources of his being into what was 
then and there a very large and difficult undertaking. It 



150 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

was no doubt often with a sense of heavy sacrifice that the 
young husband and father left the bright home he loved 
so well, with the already rich store of choice books in 
which he so delighted, for these laborious and not always 
successful journeys. He no doubt cheered himself with 
the thought that all this would be only for part of one 
year. If he had foreseen that after a season of great and 
ruinous calamities he would have to spend a considerable 
part of every year in like absences for the Seminary's sake, 
to wear himself out for it, with all manner of heavy sacri- 
fices, one does not know whether even that strong and 
brave young heart could have faced the life-long task. 
Our ignorance of the future is often, under the leadings of 
God's providence, a necessary condition of our worthiest 
undertakings and largest successes. 

In August, 1857, Professor Boyce called a meeting in 
Eichmond, Va., of the committee on the Plan of Organi- 
zation of the proposed Seminary. He had requested B. 
Manly, Jr., to draw up an abstract of doctrinal principles, 
to be signed by each professor; had undertaken himself 
to devise the legal and practical arrangements in regard to 
trustees and professors ; and had requested J. A. Broadus 
to prepare the outline of a plan of instruction. The last- 
mentioned had suggested at Louisville that the "changes" 
proposed in Boyce' s address, especially the apparently dif- 
ficult matter of uniting all grades of theological students 
in the same institution, could be effected through a plan 
adapted from that of the University of Virginia, with which 
he was familiar. The other two members of the committee 
did not come. We met in Hichmond, at the residence of 
Manly, who was Principal of the Richmond Female 
Institute, and discussed together the portions which each 
had provisionally drawn up. Through their experience as 
students at Newton and Princeton, Boyce and Manly were 
able to make valuable emendations of the plan of elective 
education for a theological school, which after much study 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. 151 

of theological catalogues had been drawn in substantial 
imitation of the method pursued in the great University, 
— by that time nearing the height of its distinction, hav- 
ing as many students as were then found at Harvard or 
Yale, and sending its graduates to be professors in colleges 
and universities all over the South. 

It was a great pleasure, during those days of earnest 
conference, to enter into intimate acquaintance with the 
young professor, to recognize his energy and wisdom, his 
courtesy and delicacy, his broad views of every question, 
his eager desire to make this institution a success beyond 
all precedent, his true-hearted devotion to the cause of 
Christ. 

The last in this long series of educational conventions 
for the purpose of establishing a common theological sem- 
inary was held in Greenville, S. C, May 1st, 1858. It 
was a time of general revival throughout the South, and 
many pastors were on that account kept from carrying out 
their known purpose of attending the convention. But 
Dr. G. W. Samson was there from Washington, who had 
attended two or three previous conventions for this purpose, 
and had manifested the greatest interest in the enterprise. 
Drs. Jeter and Poindexter and four others were present 
from Virginia, with two from North Carolina, one from 
Louisiana, one from Georgia (Professor William Williams 
of Mercer University), and thirty-three from different 
bodies in South Carolina. 

The object of this convention was to adopt a plan of 
organization for the Seminary, to elect professors, and 
provide for its going into operation the following autumn. 
The plan of organization proposed by the committee was 
carefully discussed, at many points, by a committee for the 
purpose, and by the whole convention. Drs. Poindexter and 
Samson were particularly earnest, various others also taking 
part, in discussing the Abstract of Principles; and Dr. 
Samson remembers the special interest that was taken in 



152 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

the article about the Doctrine of Imputation, which nine 
years before had been discussed in two long series of 
articles in the <* Southern Baptist, " when young Boyce was 
its editor. Some brethren in the convention had their 
doubts about the wisdom of arranging no curriculum, but 
a number of distinct departments, or schools, in each of 
which a separate diploma or certificate of proficiency 
should be given. But Boyce had heartily accepted a plau 
which promised to make it easy for students of every grade 
of preparation to study together in the same institution, 
and for the most part in the same classes ; and many others 
cheerfully accepted the scheme. The final vote as to every 
part of the organization is believed to have been unan- 
imous; but the discussions had been so free and full as 
to occupy five days. 

Instead of three professors, as had been suggested at 
Louisville, Boyce boldly proposed the appointment of four 
professors. He had obtained nearly all of the requisite 
$70,000, and was sure of the rest in a few weeks. Part 
had been paid in cash, and the remainder was held in 
bonds bearing seven per cent interest. He felt confident 
that special contributions for income could be had, if neces- 
sary ; and his boldness in planning was upheld by the fact 
— one not very common in the case of young ministers 
founding institutions — that he had a large private 
income. He had made arrangements for securing, with- 
out rent, the recently vacated house^ of worship of the 
Greenville Baptist Church, which was just then entering 
its new and beautiful building. This small but well-built 
house could be adapted with little cost to use for lecture- 
rooms and library. He stated it as his opinion that the 
Seminary ought to abstain from spending money upon 
buildings until it should first have secured an ample 
endowment for support of the instruction. In hearty 
approval of this idea, an expression was thrown out by one 
of the speakers, which was repeated years afterwards in 



SOUTHERN BAPTIST THEOU)GICAL SEMINARY. 153 

New York, and has spread all over the countr}'. Rev. 
Thomas Curtis, D.D., a member of the convention, and Prin- 
cipal of the Limestone (S. G.) Female Institute, was an 
Englishman, a man of commanding appearance and abil- 
ities. He said, with sonorous English tones and rolling 
r's, " The requisites for an institution of learning are 
three ft's, — bricks, books, brains. Our brethren usually 
begin at the wrong end of the three &'s; they spend all 
their money for bricks, have nothing to buy books, and 
must take such brains as they can pick up. But our 
brethren ought to begin at the other end of the three 5's." 

Seven years later, when the question was of undertaking 
to carry on the Seminary after the war, with the endowment 
lost, and in a land swept as by a cyclone, it was remem- 
bered with special gratitude that Boyce's plan had been 
adopted in regard to buildings; for even a few thousand 
dollars of debt would then have sunk the enterprise 
beyond redemption. 

Hon. A. B. Woodruff remembers that during the dis- 
cussions Boyce once spoke, according to his plans and 
hopes, of *'the great Southern Baptist Theological Semi- 
nary." Dr. Basil Manly, Sr., who was presiding, checked 
him, — *' Don't say great until you succeed in your work 
of endowment. When you have your Seminary safely en- 
dowed, I don't care if you write * great ' with a pencil as 
long as a streak of lightning; but don't say it yet." 

Upon nomination b}'' a committee of leading men, the 
convention unanimously elected four professors, — J. P. 
Boyce, J. A. Broadus, B. Manly, Jr., E. T. W^inkler. It 
has been often said that but for the presence of William 
Williams upon the nominating committee (he being the 
only delegate present from Georgia), he would have been 
nominated and elected. However that may be, Winkler 
would have filled with great ability the chair of Church 
History, and of Church Government and Pastoral Duties, 
as Williams afterwards did. 



154 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

But Winkler promptly declined the election. Another 
one of those elected carried the matter home as a great 
buirden, because Poin dexter and others were pressing it 
upon him, and, after weeks of anxious consideration, felt 
bound to decline also. As only Boyce and Manly had 
accepted, it was thought best to delay for another year the 
opening of the Seminary. The income could thus be used 
for more extensive and efficient agency in collecting the 
hundred thousand dollars from other States. The Board 
of Trustees, which the Convention had appointed, was to 
hold its first meeting in connection with the Southern 
Baptist Convention at Kichmond, in May, 1859, and 
could then fill the vacant chairs. Boyce had placed it 
among the fundamental and unalterable regulations of the 
Seminary that a professor should not be elected except at 
a regular annual meeting of the Board. So it was hoped 
that by a year's delay the Seminary might open in a satis- 
factory condition. When the Board met at Eichmond 
they re-elected Broadus and Winkler; as the latter again 
declined, they elected William Williams. Few, if any, 
theological seminaries in the United States had at that 
time more than four professors. Boyce reported the 
finances as in a very hopeful condition; and the Seminary 
seemed likely to open, the following autumn, with good 
prospects. 



THE SEMINARY'S PLAN OF INSTRUCTION. 155 



CHAPTEE X- 

JHE seminary's plan OP INSTRUCTION 

WE have seen that the Southern Baptist Theological 
Seminary was organized with the avowed view of 
giving theological instruction to young ministers in every 
grade of general education* Men thoroughly prepared by 
college studies or their equivalent were to have as extensive 
and thorough a theological course as could be found else* 
where. Men who were entering the ministry with only a 
partial college training, or without having attended col- 
lege at all, were to have an opportunity of carefully study- 
ing the English Scriptures, and all the other branches of 
theology for which they were prepared. Men who could 
attend the Seminary only a single year must be welcomed 
to such theological studies as would give them the best 
practical training for their work. It was thought to be 
highly important that all these grades of students should 
live together in the same institution, and, so far as pos- 
sible, study together in the same classes, seeing that this 
would tend to prevent invidious distinctions in the min- 
istry, would promote mutual appreciation, and prepare for 
an intelligent and cordial co-operation. But the question 
was, how could all this be effected? To establish a cur- 
riculum suited to college graduates, and then to carry 
along in the same institution a number of men who knew 
no Greek or Latin, probably no psychology or logic, some 
of them having only the plainest English education, would 
obviously be a surpassingly difficult task; and the experi- 
ments which had been tried in one or two Baptist theo- 



156 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

logical schools were understood to be hardly encouraging. 
Thoughtful men who had read President Way land's ad- 
dress on *'The Apostolic Ministry," and who now found 
Professor Boyce'a address on "Three Changes in Theolo- 
gical Institutions," setting forth more fully and forcibly 
the need of some such arrangement, and earnestly assert- 
ing that surely the thing could somehow be managed, 
were asking each other the question, in correspondence 
and conversation, how can it be done? How can we pre- 
vent the less thoroughly prepared students, and the men 
designing only a single session's work, from feeling them- 
selves to be placed in an inferior position, from being 
discouraged rather than stimulated, by their proximity to 
the regular students in the regular course? How save the 
men pursuing their curriculum from being hindered and 
embarrassed by the presence of these others, especially if 
reciting in the same classes ? 

The attempt was made to solve all these real difficulties 
by a thoroughly elective system, patterned after that which 
had for thirty years been in highly successful operation at 
the University of Virginia. The term '* elective" has of 
late years become common in many universities and col- 
leges, and some theological schools, to denote studies, not 
all required as part of the curriculum, but a certain num- 
ber of which may be chosen by each student, in addition 
to those required, so as to make out his complete course. 
But something very different is meant when we say that 
all the studies of this Theological Seminary were to be 
elective. One who really cares to understand the plan 
upon which this institution was organized, and upon 
which it has ever since been consistently carried on, must 
lay aside all other conceptions of elective studies, and 
look a moment at the elective method here in question. 

It was arranged that the Seminary should comprise 
eight distinct, and in a sense independent, departments 
of instruction, or schools, namely: — 



THE SEMINARY'S PLAN OF INSTRUCTION. 157 

I. Biblical Introdactlon. In this school woald be taught the 
Canon of Scripture and Inspiration, with Biblical Geography and 
Antiquities, etc. 

II. Interpretation of the Old Testament. Here there would 
be two classes, — (1) The Interpretation of the Old Testament 
in English ; (2) Hebrew and Chaldee, and Hebrew Exegesis. It 
was added that other Oriental languages, as Arabic, Syriac, etc., 
might also be taught. 

. III. Interpretation of the New Testament. (1) Interpreta- 
tion of the New Testament in English. (2) New Testament 
Greek, and Greek Exegesis. 

IV. Systematic Theology. (1) A general course, in which 
the instruction should not presuppose any acquaintance with the 
learned languages. (2) A special and more erudite course, in 
which there might be read theologies works in the Latin, etc. 

V. Polemic Theology and Apologetics. 

VI. Homiletics, or Preparation and Delivery of Sermons. 

VII. Church History. 

VIIL Church Government and Pastoral Duties. 

" In each of these schools a separate diploma shall be given to 
those students who exhibit, upon due examination, a satisfactory 
acquaintance with the studies of that school. In those schools 
which comprise two classes, a general and a special course, the 
diploma shall require a competent knowledge of both ; while to 
those whose attainments extend only to a general or English 
course, there shall be awarded a Certificate of Proficiency." 

From this it will appear that the English classes, in the 
Bible and in Systematic Theology, were not at all designed 
as a makeshift for persons who could not pursue a more 
thorough course. The diploma in any such school must 
cover both the general and the special course. The study 
of the Hebrew and Greek Scriptures would not constitute 
the regular and sufficient course, for which some study 
of the English Scriptures might be substituted by men 
having no acquaintance with Hebrew or Greek; but the 
study of the English Scriptures was recommended to all 
students, and required of those who pursued Hebrew and 



158 MEMOIB OF JAMES P. BOYCB. 

Greek Exegesis also, if they desired the Diploma in Old 
Testament or in New Testament, or the General Diploma 
of the Seminary, which was to be given to those who had 
obtained diplomas in all the separate schools. 

It was left entirely free for any student, if he chose, to 
study in only the Hebrew or the Greek class, omitting the 
English; though in that case no diploma would be given. 
In point of fact, not one student in a hundred of those 
entering the Seminary through its whole history has failed 
to enter the classes for study of the English Bible; and 
no one has ever thought of studying the more erudite 
course in Systematic Theology, without also taking the 
general or English course. The Seminary's classes in the 
English Bible have proved to be one of its most marked 
features. The course runs over the entire Old Testament 
or New Testament history, locating the Prophets, etc., and 
the Epistles, where they most probably belong in chrono- 
logical relation to the history, dividing the history into 
periods, analyzing each book into its natural divisions, 
studying a book as a whole, and a group of books in their 
relation to each other, and taking in general such broad 
views of Scripture as are not possible for those who have 
in hand only the partially known Hebrew or Greek. At 
the same time as much exercise as possible is given in 
the careful exegesis of particular passages and of entire 
books. As the students in the Hebrew and Greek classes 
in this way have gained, or are at the same time gaining, 
so much general knowledge of the Bible in English, they 
can afford to bestow more attention upon the Hebrew and 
Greek languages themselves, than if they must hurry on to 
exegesis. While having abundant specimens of exegetical 
study of the originals, they can be especially trained to 
make exegesis for themselves, by thorough and prolonged 
study of the language in hand. It was soon found that a 
good many college graduates, from all parts of the country, 
possessed a quite inadequate acquaintance with Greek. So, 



THE SEMINARY'S PLAN OF INSTRUCTION. 159 

after a few years the original plan of having the course 
in every school completed in one session was abandoned 
so far as concerned Greek and Hebrew, each of these being 
divided into a Junior and a Senior class. Yet one who 
brings a really good knowledge of Greek can of course 
enter the Senior class at once ; and in a few rare cases this 
has been done by students of Hebrew. 

It was confidently hoped at the outset that by this 
completely elective plan the thoroughly prepared students 
would be able to pursue their separate special studies in 
the Bible and Systematic Theology, without being at all 
hindered by the presence of so many other students in 
other classes. Indeed, the plan seems at once to insure 
such a result. But it was soon found, as the years went on, 
that more than this was gained by the arrangement. As the 
whole course could be studied, except the special classes 
in Hebrew and Greek and in ^-^ Latin Theology," by in- 
telligent men having only an '* English education,'' men 
were not pressed into studying the original languages 
without some real talent for acquiring a knowledge of 
language, and some strong personal desire to know Hebrew 
and Greek. Even the Junior classes in those languages 
thus included only persons impelled to enter them by 
personal aspiration. Added to this natural selection 
was the further selection of those who advanced from 
the Junior to the Senior classes in Greek and Hebrew. 
Consequently, these Senior classes can be carried over a 
much wider and more thorough range of learned study than 
would be possible if the class comprised also a number of 
men who were members of it only as a thing necessary to 
obtaining a diploma, or to taking a respectable position 
before their fellow-students and the country. It has thus 
been found that the system of free choice has greatly 
promoted true scholarship, while lessening the number of 
iU)minal scholars. Persons who give a moment's careless 
observation or reflection to this Seminary, which admits so 



\ 



160 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

large a number of mere English scholars, have often taken it 
for granted that the whole thing must be of comparatively 
low grade. The reason is that the idea of a curriculum 
underlies all their thinking on the subject; and so they 
take for granted that a course which begins so low will of 
necessity be prevented from reaching very high. Yet the 
completely and consistently elective system is found to 
work exactly otherwise ; and those who are willing to give 
the matter some attention must sooner or later find that 
such is the case. 

In all the other schools of this Seminary — i. 6., except 
Old Testament, New Testament, and Systematic Theology 
— it was arranged that there should be only one class for 
all grades of students, as indeed all study together also in 
the general or English classes of the three schools just 
excepted. Critics having little or no experience in the 
matter often take for granted that men of such various 
qualifications cannot without great difficulty hear the same 
lectures and take part in the same recitations and exami- 
nations. The real difficulties are found to be very slight, 
compared with the great advantages of throwing all the 
students together in these various departments. The less 
erudite men soon find that work will tell, and that they 
can often share very comfortably in a recitation with some 
college graduate. At the same time, they have occasion 
to observe the advantage possessed by fellow-students, or 
the professor, from an acquaintance with the learned lan- 
guages ; and every year there are some men, endowed with 
a natural talent for language, who quit after one session, 
and go off to college for a thorough course, or who go 
to work, by private instruction or resolute unaided study, 
to master Greek, some of them with real success. Others 
who come as college graduates, soon find, and show, that 
they have really little talent for language, and when dis- 
posed to leave the Hebrew and Greek, and confine them- 
selves to the English course, they are not dissuaded. Thus 



THE SEMINARY'S PLAN OF INSTRUCTION. 161 

■ 

the elements move freely up and down. Men do that for 
which they have preparation, turn of mind, and time or 
patience ; and get credit for exactly what they do. Every 
year some men come for a single session, and are led to 
complete an English or a full course. Every year some 
enter for a full course, and leave at the end, or before the 
end, of the first session. Here, as in the New Testament 
form of Church Government, the benefits of freedom far 
outweigh its inconveniencies. The free choice of studies, 
provided for by James P. Boyce and his associates, has 
shown itself thoroughly adequate to furnish theological 
education for students of very diverse grades as to prepa- 
ration, all in the same institution and for the most part 
in the same classes. 

But thoroughly elective education necessarily requires 
that the graduation be made difficult. Without this, the 
more aspiring men will be tempted to undertake too 
much, — which is one of the chief snares of an elective 
system. As to the bulk of students, they will lack the 
impulse given by a curriculum which bears the whole 
mass along together, and so they must have a more power- 
ful individual stimulus in the difficulty of graduation. 
Such has always been the experience of the University of 
Virginia, and so likewise in this Seminary. A man must 
pass independently in each of the schools before he can 
receive a general diploma. No allowance can be made in 
one subject for his having done well in others. Accord- 
ingly, in the Seminary as in the University, it is the rule 
to have in every school, or class of a school, an intermediate 
and a final written examination, lasting nine or ten hours, 
with a brief oral examination in addition upon certain 
subjects. These written examinations are a severe test 
of a man's acquaintance with the whole course of study in 
that school or class, and his power of satisfactorily stating 
what he knows. A man who has in the course of three or 
four years reached the degree of Full Graduate in the Semi- 

11 



162 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

nary lias passed more than twenty of these all-day written 
examinations. Every question is separately valued^ on 
a scale of one hundred for the whole ; and his paper must 
he worth at least seventy-five per cent on the whole in 
order to pass. Many fail to pass who have yet studied 
with great profit. The result of all this is that the num- 
her of general graduates will seem small in proportion to 
the whole number of students, when looked at hy persons 
familiar only with a curriculum. Some students remain 
only one or two sessions ; some pass in various suhjects, 
but fail in others. As a whole, the students are power- 
fully stimulated hy the high standard of graduation. 
Those who obtain a diploma know that it means some- 
thing. Those who fail to obtain it often feel, and some- 
times voluntarily say, that they would rather fail with a 
high standard than succeed with a low one. 

At first it was arranged to have only one general di- 
ploma, with the title of Full Graduate, to be given to those 
who had obtained separate diplomas in all the separate 
schools. In the year 1876 it was provided that the degree 
of English Graduate should be given to students who have 
been graduated in all the schools except the classes of 
Hebrew and Greek and the class called '^ Latin The- 
ology." This has perhaps prevented a few students from 
studying the original languages, since they could obtain a 
general degree without it ; but it has certainly led a good 
many to remain two or three years, and complete all the 
schools required for "English Graduate," who would 
otherwise have left sooner or omitted some subjects. In 
the year 1890 a further provision was made for the degree 
of Eclectic Graduate. This is given to those who have 
been separately graduated in the Junior classes of Hebrew 
and Greek, in Systematic Theology (the general or Eng- 
lish class). Church History, and Homiletics, and in any 
four of the remaining nine schools or classes. The degree 
can be taken in two years by a well-prepared student^ 



THE SEMINARY'S PLAN OF INSTRUCTION. 163 

otherwise in three years. It gives as much knowledge of 
Hebrew and New Testament Greek as is gained in the 
majority of theological institutions, and prepares the stu- 
dent to use the elaborate learned commentaries, and, 
if he will keep up these studies, to use the original in 
examining his texts; while yet he is not required to work 
through the extensive and difficult course of the Senior 
classes in Hebrew and Greek. Some excellent students, 
who are pressed by lack of time or means, can thus in two 
years obtain a highly valuable degree. Some content 
themselves with this who might perhaps otherwise have 
remained and toiled through the entire eight schools 
(thirteen classes) ; but others are encouraged, by finding 
that they can take this degree, to remain and com- 
plete the whole range of study for the degree of Full 
Graduate. All works freely, with the occasional dis- 
advantages of freedom, but with its constant and high 
advantages. 

Besides these eight schools (thirteen classes), which 
constitute the range of si;udy required for the degree of 
Full Graduate, there have been established numerous 
special departments, such as of late years have been intro- 
duced in various other theological seminaries. In this 
Seminary there are now thirteen of these speciq,l studies, 
including the Arabic, Aramaic, Assyrian, Coptic, and 
Modern Greek languages, Patristic Greek and Patristic 
Latin, Old Testament Prophecy, Textual Criticism of the 
New Testament, Foreign Hymnology (Latin and Greek 
Hymns, German and French Hymns), History of Doc- 
trines, Historical Seminary (original researches and essays 
in Church History), and Theological German (two classes 
for reading German works in Exegesis, Systematic or 
Practical Theology, Church History, etc.). In each of 
these special departments the Faculty has authority to 
give a separate diploma; and so in other departments, 
which may be organized as needed. But these special 



164 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

diplomas cannot be substituted for any part of the 
range of study required in order to the degree of Full 
Graduate. 

In May, 1892, the Board of Trustees established a new 
system of titles. The degree of English Graduate is to 
carry the title of Th. G., or Graduate in Theology; the 
degree of Eclectic Graduate, that of Th. B., or Bachelor 
in Theology; the degree of Full Graduate, that of Th. M., 
or Master in Theology, — corresponding very much to the 
famous old degree of Master of Arts in the University of 
Virginia, and to the similar M. A. in several Southern 
colleges. And any one who, after taking the Master's 
degree, remains as a close student in the Seminary for at 
least one whole session of eight months, and has been 
graduated in at least five of the special departments above 
mentioned (the choice to be approved by the Faculty), 
and who, furthermore and especially, has prepared a satis- 
factory thesis, presenting the results of original research 
or original thought in some subject connected with theo- 
logical studies, shall receive the degree of Th. D., or 
Doctor in Theology. 

As originally organized, the Seminary had no president, 
but Professor Boyce was made Chairman of the Faculty. 
In May, 1888, the title was changed to that of President, 
but with the express provision that the government should 
remain in the hands of the Faculty. Several colleges 
have in like manner imitated the University of Virginia 
by having only a Chairman of the Faculty. This was 
Mr. Jefferson's democratic reaction against the autocratic 
power exercised by some presidents of universities or 
colleges, not only as to discipline, but as to the appoint- 
ment and removal of professors. In theological schools, 
where there are usually but few professors, and very little 
has to be done in the way of discipline, it is best that the 
faculty should govern the institution, whatever title may 
be given to the presiding officer. But in a university or 



THE SEMINARY'S PLAN OF INSTRUCTION. 165 

college there is much reason for thinking it desirable to 
have a real president, who shall give unity to the general 
work, and shall be the recognized representative of the 
institution, busily canvassing for students, and striving, 
through personal acquaintance and influence, to obtain 
additional gifts for endowment and support. 



166 BCEMOIB OF JAMBS P. BOTGE. 



CHAPTER XI. 

THE seminary's THREE FIRST SESSIONS, 1869-1862. 

THE new Seminary opened at Greenville with many 
encouragements. The long series of efforts to 
secure a common institution awakened greater interest 
than if it had been easily and promptly established. The 
leading pastors, educators, and private brethren who had 
taken part in the successive conventions now gave the in- 
stitution a cordial support. The fact that its plan of 
instruction had been specially arranged to meet the wants 
of Baptist ministers in all grades of general education, 
and seemed well adapted to that desirable end, awakened 
high hopes of something more widely useful than had 
previously existed. The South Carolina contribution of 
$100,000 for the endowment had all been provided, in 
cash or in the seven-per-cent bonds of planters, — a 
first-class security. Considerable progress had been made 
in several other States towards raising the remaining 
$100,000, and there was no fear of failure. 

Greenville was found to be a pretty town of some three 
thousand inhabitants, spreading out, in Southern fashion, 
over several pleasing hills. Through the midst flowed a 
bright stream, called the Reedy River, a branch of the 
Saluda. Within the limits of the town it formed a con- 
siderable waterfall, supplying mills of different kinds. 
From the hills there is a fine view of the Blue Ridge, some 
thirty miles away, whose beautiful proportions and charm- 
ing color are a perpetual delight. The mountains are there 
about as high as in Central Virginia, the loftiest portions 
lying between, in North Carolina. Some five miles north- 



THE SEMINARY'S THREE FIRST SESSIONS. 167 

west of the town is Paris Mountain, — a short out-lying range 
of the Blue Bidge, particularly well adapted to the growth 
of peaches and other fruits of the vicinage. Among other 
persons living upon this mountain was General Waddy 
Thompson, who had heen a member of Congress and 
minister to Mexico, and who liked to be told by the 
guests who enjoyed his cordial hospitalities that his 
mountain abode reminded them of Monticello, the home 
of Thomas Jefferson. General Thompson's former resi- 
dence in the edge of Greenville had been purchased some 
years before by Professor Boyce, the large and airy wooden 
house, with its broad gardens and spacious lawn and grand 
forest trees, making a beautiful Southern abode. There 
were many other admirable residences in the town, most of 
them furnished with ample encompassing space, in which 
from early spring were bright flowers and luxuriant shrub- 
bery. The buildings recently erected for Furman Univer- 
sity had an admirable site south of the river, and their 
architectural symmetry and general effect were ' uncom- 
monly pleasing. The proximity to the mountains gives a 
considerable elevation to the locality, the hills and ravines 
make a perfect drainage, the sandy streets and grounds 
quickly absorb falling rain, and the place is healthy in a 
very high degree. A railroad had been completed some 
two or three years before, which connected the town with 
Columbia and Charleston, and so by a circuitous route 
with the North and the South and West. The people of 
Greenville presented an uncommonly large proportion of 
intelligent and refined families. The place was in all 
respects well suited to be the seat of educational insti- 
tutions, and besides the University and the Theological 
' Seminary there was a prosperous Female College, with a 
good building. 

The old Baptist house of worship had been divided by 
partitions into two lecture-rooms and a library. The 
theological portion of the library of Furman University 



168 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

had been turned over, amounting to some two thousand 
volumes, and the following summer, at the suggestion of 
Dr. G-. W. Samson, the Columbian College of Washington 
City presented nearly two hundred volumes, including 
several sets of complete works of the highest value. The 
now large private library of Dr, Boyce was a treasure to 
his colleagues in pursuing the studies connected with 
their several schools. The four professors were all young, 
and full of enthusiasm for their new undertaking, while 
none of them was without considerable experience in 
preaching and instruction. The Baptist Colleges of the 
South had amiably recognized their destitution of all titles 
of dignity, and at the Commencements of May and June 
had made each of them a D.D. Surely all was now ready. 

The preparation of James P. Boyce for this position 
appears from all that we have seen of his history and 
character. Becall his thorough general education at the 
College of Charleston and at Brown University, his useful 
experience as editor in Charleston and full theological 
course at Princeton, his four years as pastor in Columbia, 
and now four years as theological professor in Furman 
University, two of them spent in laborious teaching there, 
and two in agency work for the proposed institution. He 
presented a remarkable combination of business talent, 
with thorough education and wide reading, and with 
experience as a preacher and professor, and was singularly 
adapted to be at once the Chairman of the Faculty and 
Treasurer of the Seminary, and its Professor of Systematic 
and of Polemic Theology. 

We have seen that Basil Manly, Jr., now thirty-three 
years old, had been graduated at the State University of 
Alabama, and had taken a full theological course at Newton 
and Princeton. After a rich pastoral experience, including 
four years in the famous First Baptist Church of Richmond^ 
Va., he had now been for five years the principal of the 
Richmond Female Institute, taking a large part in the 



THE SEMINAEY'S THREE FIRST SESSIONS. 169 

higher instruction. He was already well known to be a 
man of great versatility and varied attainments, as strong 
in will as he was gentle in spirit, and sure to be warmly 
loved by his associates and pupils. 

William Williams was now thirty-eight years old, a 
native of Georgia, and a graduate of the University of 
Georgia. He practised several years as a lawyer, having 
been graduated in the Law School of Harvard University. 
From 1851 he was a pastor in Alabama and Georgia, and 
since 1856 had been Professor of Theology in Mercer Uni- 
versity, then located at Ponfield, Ga. His legal studies 
and practice had disciplined his great mental acuteness. 
He had extraordinary power in the clear and terse state- 
ment of truth, and when kindled in preaching or lecturing 
he spoke with such intensity as is rarely equalled. He 
was also a man of great purity of character, certain to 
command the profoundest respect. 

John A. Broadus was thirty-two years old, being a few 
days younger than Boyce. A native of Virginia, and from 
early youth a school-teacher by inheritance, he had been 
graduated in 1850 as M. A. of the University of Virginia. 
After another year of teaching he was pastor of the Baptist 
Church at Charlottesville, the seat of the University, from 
1851 to 1859. During the first two years of this period 
he was also assistant-instructor in Latin and Greek, under 
the revered guidance of the famous Dr. Gessner Harrison. 
For the two years from 1855 to 1857 he again resided in 
the University as chaplain, his place in the Charlottesville 
church being filled by Rev. A. E. Dickinson. Then two 
remaining years in Charlottesville, and he went to the 
Seminary. 

The number of students for the first session was twenty- 
six, which Dr. Boyce found, upon examination, to be a much 
larger number than had attended the first session of any 
other theological school in America. Ten of these were 
from Virginia, three from North Carolina, nine from South 



170 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCB. 

Carolina, one from Florida, two from Alabama, and one 
from Missouri. 

True to the design of the Seminary, there were among 
these students men of the most varied general preparation. 
W. L. Ballard, of South Carolina, whose name comes first 
on the list, was a plain country pastor, perhaps forty-five 
years old, a deeply pious man and a deeply earnest student, 
who remained one session; and in the country churches 
accustomed to hear him it was freely said the next year 
that his preaching was most wonderfully improved. Let 
him stand as a representative case of one thing which the 
Seminary set itself to do, of a class of students for whom 
ihe professors have through all the years often thanked 
God, Several were men of whom the faculty afterwards 
knew little; but most of them doubtless filled places of 
usefulness in their several States, and could not fail to 
have been somewhat benefited. A considerable proportion 
remained only the one session. E.. B. Boatwright has 
been just such a lovable and useful pastor in Virginia as 
he promised to be, and has cause to rejoice in a bril- 
liant son, who is professor in Richmond College. J^ A. 
ChamblisB, of Alabama, remained two years, and was the 
Seminary's first Full Graduate, feeing a man of fine powers, 
and well prepared. The course was afterwards so extended 
in several departments that no other student has ever 
become Full Graduate in two years, except two men who 
brought a good knowledge of Hebrew. Dr. Chambliss has 
filled a number of important pastorates in different South- 
ern States, including four years in Eichmond and ten 
years in Charleston, and he is now pastor at East Orange, 
N. J. W. L. Curry had been a student at Princeton, and 
remained two years at the Seminary, being graduated in a 
number of schools. He has been useful as a pastor of 
various country and village churches, chiefly in Georgia. 
Rufus Figh, of Alabama, came from Howard College, and 
remained two sessions, and was a much beloved and very 



THE SEMINARY'S THREE FIRST SESSIONS. 171 

nseful pastor in Georgia, Alabama, and Texas, down to 
his death in 1889. G. W. Hyde, of Missouri, remained 
three sessions, and was the second Full Graduate ; he was 
a chaplain in the Confederate Army in Virginia during the 
last three years of the war, and has since been greatly 
beloved in Missouri as pastor of various churches, and as 
General Agent for State Missions or Home Missions. 
Hilary E. Hatcher, of Virginia, came as a graduate of 
Bichmond College, and remained at the Seminary two 
sessions, being graduated in most of the principal schools; 
he was then a chaplain in General Lee's army, and after 
the war preached to churches in Orange County, Va., till 
his death, in 1892. J. Wm. Jones, of Virginia, had been 
for some years a student at the Universit}^ of Virginia, 
and remained one year in the Seminary, being graduated 
in a number of schools; he was chaplain in Lee's army 
throughout the war, then pastor at Lexington, Va., for 
several years, and afterwards ^at other points, and is now 
the widely known Assistant-Secretary of the Home Mis* 
sion Board of the Southern Baptist Convention at At- 
lanta, and author of several highly popular and useful 
books; Dr. Jones has the distinction of being the first 
alumnus to send a son to the Seminary, and of having had 
up to the present time four sons in all who attended it as 
students. Robert H. Marsh, of North Carolina, came 
from the University of that State, and remained in the 
Seminary two sessions, being graduated in several schools; 
he was chaplain in the Confederate army two years, and 
then pastor of various important churches in his State; 
Dr. Marsh has also been an honored instructor in several 
institutions. C. H. Eyland, of Virginia, came from Rich- 
mond College, and remained in the Seminary two years, 
being graduated in a number of schools; he labored 
diligently as army colporteur during the war, and, after 
useful service as pastor at Alexandria and other points, 
has since 1874 been financial secretary of Richmond Col- 



172 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

lege, and at the same time pastor of churches within 
reach. Dr. Kyland is a man warmly loved and very influ- 
ential. T. B. Shepherd, of Virginia, came from Columbian 
College (now Columbian University), and remained in the 
Seminary one year^ being graduated in all the schools he 
attended; he has been a useful pastor at various points in 
the State. W. J. Shipman, of Virginia, who came from 
Bichmond College, and remained one year, being gradu- 
ated in several schools, has also been a very faithful and 
useful man, including important pastorates in Kichmond 
and at Halifax Court-Hpuse ; he was the second alumnus 
who sent a son to the Seminary. C. H. Toy, of Virginia, 
was a Master of Arts of the University of that State, and 
took in one session some three fourths of the'Seminary's 
course, being easily graduated in every school he attended; 
he was ordained the following summer, with the expecta- 
tion of becoming a missionary to Japan; this being pre- 
vented by the war, he serv|d as chaplain to the close of 
the war. Some years later, as we shall see, he became pro- 
fessor in the Seminary, and is now professor in Harvard 
University.^ 

During the three or four central months of this first 
session the Professor of the New Testament and Homi- 
letics was so enfeebled by illness as to be entirely cut off 
from teaching. The classes were taken in hand by his 
colleagues, — a hard task, when all were toiling through 
a first session. But Boyce and Williams had enjoyed 
the experience of teaching a variety of theological sub- 
jects, and Manly was, by his versatile constitution and 
varied training, able to teach almost anything. They did 
the work, of course ; but they did it so ably, and with such 

1 It has seemed appropriate to give some brief account of several 
students of the first session or two, though of course this c^innot be 
continued for every subsequent year. Others not here mentioned have 
doubtless been very useful ; but the writer has, unfortunately, not had 
opportunity to know so well concerning them and their work. 



THE SEMINARY'S THREE FIRST SESSIONS. 173 

cheerful kiDclness, such unfailing and delicate efforts to 
prevent their colleague from being pained by the situation, 
that, now when they have all passed away, the matter is 
remembered with unspeakable gratitude and affection. As 
a part of his ample home establishment, Dr. Boyce had 
several ponies, trained for the saddle, on which his wife 
and her sister were accustomed to ride, accompanied by a 
groom. One of these ponies was promptly placed at the 
disposal of his colleague, who soon sought permission to 
take the groom's place in the long rides through that 
beautiful neighborhood, and thus early formed an inti- 
mate acquaintance, which he has ever since most highly 
valued. 

Dr. Boyce's own health was at that time superb, and his 
power of endurance seemed to be almost unlimited. In 
January he took his family for a few days to Charleston, 
in order to visit his relatives and look after the many busi- 
ness interests of his father's estate. He invited his invalid 
colleague to accompany him on what would be a first visit 
to the beautiful city by the sea. The journey had to be- 
gin at 4 A. M., and continue till towards midnight; but he 
wrapped his friend in a wonderful overcoat, — a miracle of 
softness and warmth, — and when we reached Charleston 
carried him in his own arms from the carriage into his 
room at the hotel. He seemed strong like a giant, and he 
was tender as a woman. He shrank from equestrianism, 
but loved to drive about Greenville and vicinity a fine pair 
of horses, with which he also went once a month to a 
country church twenty-five miles away, of which he was 
pastor. On one of these journeys he took the same col- 
league with him. We spent the night in a large double 
cabin built of logs, whose owner was poor and far from 
cultivated, but had a heart as big as all out-doors, and a 
joyous delight in everything religious. It was beautiful 
to see how completely at home Dr. Boyce appeared, and 
how completely at ease he made everybody around him. 



174 MEMOIR OF JAMES P BOYCE. 

The story was afterwards told by some one else that when 
the rich preacher from Greenville made his first visit to 
this church as pastor, having been called upon the recom- 
mendation of his predecessor, when the people saw the 
fine horses and stylish negro driver of the buggy, there 
was quite a sensation. The church included persons of 
intelligence, dwelling in comfortable homes, who after- 
wards came to love him warmly. But on that occasion, 
when the church-meeting which followed the sermon had 
ended, there arose a new and lively discussion as to who 
should take the pastor home with him. Various brethren 
suggested to various others, " Can't you take our pastor 
to-night?" But each one found it impossible to do so. 
At length the hero of the double cabin spoke out warmly, 
and said, "Well, brethren, I don't mind it, 1^11 take 
him." Let it not be imagined that there was about him 
any particle of display. He took two excellent horses in 
order to shorten the trip and save time, and he took a 
servant to drive, in order that he might be able to think of 
his sermon. Some years later, the writer himself became 
pastor of the same church, and had ample occasion to learn 
how highly Dr. Boyce was appreciated and loved by all 
the people. 

Dr. J. Wm. Jones has written with great earnestness as 
to Dr. Boyce's cordial kindness to the students during this 
first session. He invited them in groups to dinner or tea, 
and urged them to visit him informally. He privately 
offered financial aid to such as needed it, seeing that the 
Seminary had not yet any fund for this purpose. Learning 
that Toy and Jones were walking three miles ov^ to a mis- 
sion Sunday-school, he insisted on their driving his ponies. 
When the prayer-meetings conducted by students in pri- 
vate houses overflowed, he suggested building a mission 
chapel, promising to pay whatever they could not collect; 
but the war troubles broke up the plan. In general, he 
delighted in all religious work done by the students, in 



THE SEMINARY'S THREE FIRST SESSIONS. 175 

the town and its vicinity, and especially when he heard 
of conversions in their meetings. He longed to have it 
understood that the Seminary wished to train zealous 
preachers and working pastors. 

About the end of the session Dr. Boyce preached at the 
dedication of the new Baptist Church at Columbia. He 
had, of course, fulfilled his generous o£Eer of ten thousand 
dollars towards its erection, but had made the payments 
only in proportion as other contributions were paid. All 
his giving was managed with the greatest care, so as to 
bring from it good results in every direction. The sermon 
refers feelingly to the ** eight years of sacrifice and toil 
an(^ pain " through which the Church has pressed on to 
the erection of this building. He distinguishes between 
*' sacramental " and ** sacrilegious " theories as to the char- 
acter of a house of worship, urging that its sacred design 
and associations shall not be violated by employing it for 
mere secular gatherings and addresses. 

At the Commencement for this first session, near the 
end of May, 1860, a missionary sermon was preached by 
President G. W. Samson, D.D., of Washington City, and 
an address was made by the venerable Dr. B. Manly, Sr., 
both of whom had taken a great interest in the various 
conventions leading to the formation of the Seminary. 
By request of Dr. Boyce, Professor B. Manly, Jr., wrote a 
Commencement hymn, beginning, " Soldiers of Christ, in 
truth arrayed," which has been sung at every subsequent 
Commencement, and it is hoped will be sung for ages to 
come. As a whole, the opening session was thought to 
have been highly successful and encouraging. But the 
summer and autumn of that year were marked by the 
political canvass which led to the election of Abraham 
Lincoln. There was immense popular excitement, which 
the men of to-day may be glad that they can scarcely 
imagine. It was very generally believed that the election 
of Mr. Lincoln would lead to great political changes, and 



176 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

not a few thought the result would he war. At such 
times young men find it hard to settle down for a course of 
quiet study. 

Yet the second session showed a gratifying increase of 
attendance, namely, from twenty-six to thirty-six. Of these 
Virginia sent ten^ North Carolina four, South Carolina 
nine, Georgia one, Alahama fiy«, Mississippi five, Mis- 
souri one, Massachusetts one. Eleven students of the iirst 
session returned, and some others were doubtless prevented 
only by the political excitement. The large attendance 
from Alabama and Mississippi showed that the interest in 
the Seminary was widening. Among the new students, 
at least a few ought to be mentioned. F. M. Danieh of 
Alabama, came from Howard College, and remained two 
sessions. He has long been a highly useful pastor at 
various places in Georgia. Joseph F. Deans, of Virginia, 
was a graduate of Columbian College, and came now for 
one session, returning after the war for two sessions more. 
He was a chaplain in the Confederate Army, and has been 
a laborious and useful pastor and teacher in Virginia. 
C. E. W. Dobbs, of Virginia, who came one session, has 
been widely known as pastor in Kentucky and Indiana, 
in Mississippi and Georgia, and as a writer for the reli- 
gious press. P. C. Dozier, of South Carolina, attended 
two sessions, and has long lived in California, of late as 
professor at Los Angeles. J. L. Pettigrew came from 
Mississippi College and attended one session, and has been 
a vigorous pastor and teacher in Mississippi. James B. 
Taylor, Jr., of Virginia, educated at Richmond College 
and the University of Virginia, attended the Seminary 
one session, and has been an honored and useful pastor in 
North Carolina and Virginia. His father was the revered 
Secretary of the Foreign Mission Board; his brothers are 
Dr. George B. Taylor, missionary to Italy, and President 
Charles E. Taylor, of Wake Forest. John W. Taylor, of 
Alabama, remained one session, — a man of rare gifts and 



i 



THE SEMINARY'S THREE FIRST SESSIONS. 177 

lovely character, whose class-work is vividly rememhered 
across all the years, hut whose rich promise was hlighted 
by an early death. George F. Williams, of Massachusetts, 
had a sister who was the wife of Thomas P. Miller, a 
prominent Baptist merchant of Mobile. He had been 
graduated at Boehester University, and remained at the 
Seminary two sessions. He was missionary in the Con- 
federate Army for three years, and has shown a remark- 
able talent for pastoral and city mission work, in which 
he is now engaged in Richmond, Va. 

It was a difficult thing during that second session for 
professors and students to go quietly on. The presidential 
election occurred when the session was but a month old. 
Then promptly arose the great Secession excitement in 
South Carolina, and we went about our daily tasks beneath 
dark and stormy skies. A State Convention was speedily 
called by the Legislature, to meet in December. Dr. Boyco 
felt constrained to become a candidate in opposition to 
Secession; yet, though Greenville District had long been 
a Union stronghold, he was overwhelmingly beaten. His 
political history during the period of the war will be given 
in the next chapter. 

The students almost all remained throughout the session, 
and they and their instructors strove to study faithfully. 
But you could hear nothing on the streets, or in the homes 
where the students boarded, save excited political discus- 
sion. Well might it be so, for the times were big with 
destiny. The students themselves were greatly divided 
in opinion about the course which ought to be pursued by 
South Carolina and the other States, as were their profes- 
sors. Mr. G. F. Williams, who was known to some as a 
Northern man, in returning from lecture one day made 
some sharp remark on the street in opposition to secession, 
and several rough youngsters threatened to mob him. A 
good-natured livery-stable keeper quieted them with a 
phrase* that was remembered: *'Let him alone, fellows; 

12 



178 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

don't you know a man can't study geography before he 'a 
"born?" 

The secession of South Carolina was promptly followed 
by that of several other States, and in February a Provi- 
sional Congress met in Montgomery, and elected Jefferson 
Davis as President of the Confederate States. Still we 
went on trying to teach and learn, hoping and fearing and 
wondering what manner of life was before us, when the 
capture of Fort Sumter, April 12, ended all prospect of 
peaceful settlement, and threw the whole South and the 
whole country into the fiercest excitement. 

The second Commencement of the Seminary was held on 
May 27, 1861, and the anniversary address, given by Dr. 
E. T. Winkler, of Charleston, was published. There is not 
a word in it about the political situation. The Southern 
feeling was strong that ministers must not preach on polit- 
ical questions, and we were all diligently endeavoring to 
concentrate attention upon our own business. Dr. Winkler 
spoke in characteristically graceful and very hearty com- 
mendation of the Seminary's wise plans, and its gratifying 
successes and prospects; and then set himself to exalt the 
great work which ministers have to do in the world. 

Three weeks before the close of the session. Dr. Boyce 
and the writer went to Savannah to attend a meeting of 
the Southern Baptist Convention. At Charleston we took 
a sail-boat, in company with Boyce's early friend, William 
G. Whilden, and visited Fort Sumter, to see the effect of 
the bombardment which had caused its surrender by the 
United States troops. We lunched on Morris Island, 
which afterwards became famous in connection with the 
blockade and siege. In returning, we encountered a very 
high wind, which made the voyage of the little sail-boat 
increasingly difficult, and at last dangerous. Whenever 
we tacked, in beating up against the wind, the waves 
burst over us, wetting the whole person and deluging the 
boat. We learned afterwards that many boats were upset 



i 



THE SEMINARY'S T^HREE FIRST SESSIONS. 179 

in the Bay, and some lives were lost. At length we gave 
up the attempt, and went hefore the wind to Point Plea- 
sant, returning to the city at night when the storm was 
over. Boyce was a good swimmer, having had much boyish 
practice in those very waters, and was characteristically 
cheerful, and even hilarious when the waves would break 
over us. It is still remembered in what a comical quan- 
dary his colleague was, who could not swim, as to the 
proper generosity in his assurances that the negro boatman 
should be rewarded if the boat capsized and his life was 
saved. Enough must be promised, and yet not too much, 
or the boat might be helped in going over. The Conven- 
tion at Savannah passed resolutions showing sympathy 
with the cause of the Confederacy. Dr. Boyce discouraged 
anything of the kind, and through life he always strongly 
opposed the interference of religious bodies, as such, with 
political affairs. 

A good many of our students went at once into the army, 
some as chaplains, others as soldiers. The first battle of 
Manassas was fought on July 21st. The following Sun- 
day was the time of meeting of the Baptist State Con- 
vention of South Carolina in Spartanburg. There was 
naturally much exultation. A thanksgiving service was 
appointed for Sunday morning. The preacher urged our 
entire dependence on Providence, and the great importance 
of not taking everything for granted from a single success. 
The tone of his sermon was commended by some leading 
brethren, but others evidently felt that he was not quite 
up to the requirements of the occasion. Our Southern 
cause was right. The right must succeed. Yes, the right 
had succeeded, and this must continue. Such was the 
feeling of many good men, while of course others, such as 
Dr. Boyce, were more thoughtful, and better acquainted 
with the illustrations given by history to the true and 
Scriptural doctrine of providence. 

In the autumn we could see clearly that the number of 
students for a third session must be greatly reduced. In 



180 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

fact, it fell off to twenty, of whom eight had been Btudents 
of the previous session. Of these twenty, Virginia sent 
seven, North Carolina two, South Carolina seven, Alabama 
one, Mississippi one, Missouri one, Massachusetts one. 
Several of these have been mentioned in connection with 
the preceding sessions. William H. Williams, of Virginia, 
returned in 1866 for two sessions more, became a full 
graduate, was pastor in Charleston and in Virginia, and 
is now editor of the " Central Baptist." W. E. Phillips, 
of South Carolina, a promising student, was killed in 
battle the following year. A. B. Woodfin, of Virginia, is 
the well-known pastor in Alabama and Virginia. Several 
others are known to have made very useful men. Every 
now and then some one of these twenty would find himself 
unable to continue studying, and go off to volunteer with 
his friends. We studied on as best we could. In the 
autumn or winter a new volunteer regiment was gathered 
in Greenville District, and Dr. Boyce accepted the place 
of Chaplain of this regiment. It was evidently useless to 
attempt to hold another session of the Seminary while the 
war continued. The Confederate Congress was already 
providing for a general conscription. Ministers were of 
course to be excepted, but we were unwilling to ask any 
special exemption for ministerial students, which would 
have placed all concerned under a shadow of reproach. We 
attempted no formal Commencement at the close; as very 
few students were present, and Boyce had already left, with 
his regiment. The Seminary had opened, as we have seen, 
with prospects bright almost beyond parallel in the coun- 
try. The second $100,000 of endowment had by this time 
been nearly all subscribed in the other States. But now 
— the war ! 

Dr. Boyce made what he thought the wisest arrange- 
ments for the future of the institution. He requested t^e 
professors to retain their connection with the Seminary, 
80 as to begin again whenever practicable, and paid their 
salaries regularly in the Confederate currency, which was 



J 



THE SEMINARY'S THREE FIRST SESSIONS. 181 

already beginning to depreciate. Dtb. Williams and 
Manly, who had each a number of servants, rented plan- 
tations in Abbeville District, a hundred miles down the 
railroad, and did much good as pastors of interesting coun- 
try churches in that region, while striving to continue their 
studies. Dr. Broadus remained in Greenville, and began 
likewise to preach to churches within reach. It was prob- 
ably in the autumn of that year, 1862, that Boyce gave a 
curious proof of his far-sighted wisdom. One day when at 
home he said to his colleague: ''I am satisfied the war 
will last several years longer. The Federal Government 
will blockade our ports, and everything imported will grow 
very scarce and high. So I recommend that you let me 
purchase for you a large supply of groceries, enough to 
last you several years. Some day you may find it very 
convenient to trade them off for other things." His friend 
hesitated, as he shared the general opinion that the war 
could not last very long, and as he had no money to 
advance for such a purchase. But Boyce insisted, offering 
to lend him the money. And when the Confederate cur- 
rency had become sorely depreciated, and the necessaries 
of life were sadly hard to procure in cities and towns; when 
at one time, before the manufacture of salt began in the 
Confederacy, thirty two-horse loads of oakwood were cheer- 
fully bartered by a farmer, upon his own proposition, for 
thirty teacupfuls* of Turk's Island salt, — often and often 
in those years of strange experiences there was much 
gratitude in the family for his wisdom and kindness. It 
was learned afterwards that a celebrated Baptist in Eich- 
mond, Ya., James Thomas, Jr., a man of extraordinary 
business talent, made a similar forecast. As soon as he 
heard that the Confederates had captured Fort Sumter, he 
began to arrange all his business relations with different 
parts of the world, and laid in groceries for his large family, 

1 It is fair to add that the lady of the house voluntarily chose her 
largest teacup, and heaped it every time. 



182 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

enough for five years. When asked why he was buying so 
much, he said there would be a long and terrible war, last- 
ing several years, and all such things would become very 
scarce. Yet Mr. Seward was not probably saying, **The 
war will end in ninety days," merely for effect, but 
honestly believed it; and many able men at the South felt 
a similar confidence. 

In the summer of 1862, and afterwards, many subscribers 
for the Seminary's endowment began to offer payment in 
Confederate currency. Boyce was never very sanguine as 
to Confederate success, but he took the money offered, and 
invested it in Confederate bonds. He would say, *^ If the 
South succeeds, these bonds will have value ; if it fails, 
the private bonds and subscriptions we hold will be worth- 
less, because property and business will go to pieces, and 
we could never collect." But he repeatedly remarked that 
he would not think of converting ante-bellum investments 
into Confederate securities. 

Amid all the distractions and anxieties of these first 
years of the Seminary, Dr. Boyce was an eager and diligent 
student. Being very zealous as to his special class for the 
study of theology in Turrettin and other Latin text-books, 
and not satisfied with his own knowledge of the Latin 
language, he made an engagement for a regular series of 
recitations in the language to one of his friends, who was 
known to have made Latin a specialty. It was simply 
wonderful to see how regularly he attended, with so many 
labors and responsibilities, and how carefully he prepared. 
Throughout his life, being well known as a great business 
man, many people took for granted that he could hardly be 
much of a scholar. But his attainments were verv exten- 
sive, his appetencies for high scholarship were insatiable, 
and the great financial sacrifices he made in later years in 
order to build up the Seminary were in his estimation of 
little moment compared with the sad and sore hindrance to 
his plans of study. 



DE. BOYCE'S PAET 11^ THE WAR. 183 



CHAPTER XII. 

DR. BOYCE's part IN THE WAR. 

JAMES P. BOYCE had grown up an opponent of 
Secession, as his father was, and his namesake, Mr. 
Petigru, and a good many other prominent men in 
South Carolina. He held that the State had no consti- 
tutional right of Secession, and that if a secession were 
made by any State, it would he simply a revolutionary 
act, and could be defended only on the ground by which 
other revolutions are justified.* When Mr. Lincoln was 
elected, on the platform of refusing slavery any admission 
into the Territories of the United States, and thus restrict- 
ing it absolutely to the States in which it already existed, 
it was considered evident that the triumphant party would 
ultimately go farther still, and begin to interfere, in one 
way or another, with the existing Slave States. This 
was regarded as a menace, not only to the institution of 
slavery, but to State rights and the fundamental prin- 
ciples of American liberty. Dr. Boyce believed that the 
Southern States ought to seek from the part}'^ coming into 
power some reliable guarantees of non-interference with 
the existing Slave States. When the Legislature of. 
South Carolina summoned a Convention, in which Seces- 
sion was well understood to be the issue, he came out as 
an Anti-Secession candidate for the Convention, in con- 
nection with Major B. F. Perry, a man of commanding 

1 The Right of Secession is discussed with great force — for and 
against — and great beauty of style in Jefferson Davis's "Rise and Fall 
of the Confederate Government," and James G. Blaine's "Twenty 
Years of Congress." 



I 



184 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOTCE. 



character, and long a leader among the Union men^ who 
had hitherto constituted a majority in the up-country 
districts. But it speedily became manifest that in the 
low country and the middle country the tide was all in 
favor of Secession. The South Carolinians were not at 
all, as was imagined in many parts of the country, a rest- 
less and hot-headed folk, inclined to change, novis rebus 
studentes. On the contrary, they were the most conserva- 
tive community in the whole country, — even retaining 1 
many old institutions and customs that were no longer 
useful, simply through their aversion to change. But 
the Secession leaders now persuaded the people in general 
that the only way to conserve their State independence, 
their property, and their characteristic civilization was 
to quit the Union and seek to establish a Confederation 
of the Southern States. These views rapidly spread into 
the upper distriots also; and even in Greenville District, 
which had always been a stronghold of Union sentiment, 
Perry and Boyce and their ticket received only a few hun- 
dred votes. The Secession ticket of the district included 
Rev. James C. Furman, D. D., President of Furman 
University, who had long been a pronounced advocate 
of Secession. The Convention met in December, and 
promptly passed an Ordinance of Secession, without a 
dissenting vote. 

Two days before this Secession Convention met. Dr. 
Boyce wrote to H. A. Tupper : — 

'^ I have been all along in favor of resistance, by demanding 
first new guarantees, and if these were not granted, then forming 
a Southern Confederacy. If you Georgia people come in, we are 
safe enough ; though we shall yet suffer, because the plan of 
co-operation has not preceded Secession. We are going to have 
the Confederacy of New England, the Free City of New York, 
the Confederacy of the Middle States, and that of the West, — or 
the two united, — and that cutting through our Southern territory 
to the Gulf, the Confederacy of the Border States, that of the 



DR. BOYCE'S PART IN THE WAR. 185 

Cotton States, — Texas standing alone, — and the Confederacy 
of the Pacific. Alas, my country ! . . . I know I am cautious 
about taking any step without arranging for the consequences* 
I have always had such a desire for justice, even to my foes, that 
I wish to leave no one any ground to charge me even with failure 
in form. I do wish to see the North put entirely in the wrong, by 
making them dissolve the Union, if it must be, through refusing 
to grant what we ask. And again, I have always been old fogy 
enough to love the past, with all its glorious associations. More- 
over, I believe I see in all this the end of slavery. I believe we 
are cutting its throat, curtailing its domain. And I have been, 
and am, an ultra pro-slavery man. Yet I bow to what God will 
do. I feel that our sins as to this institution have cursed ns, — 
that the negroes have not been cared for in their marital and 
religious relations as they should be ; and I fear God is going to 
sweep it away, after having left it thus long to show us how 
great we might be, were we to act as we ought in this matter." 

Again, on Jan. 10, 1861, he writes to his sister, — 

" I am proud to say I love my State, and my whole country, 
too well to support the present movement. It is to me one of 
the proudest recollections of my father that he helped so manfully 
in 1852 to stay this folly; and were he only here in 1860 and 
'61, I feel well assured where he would stand. The country his 
father bled for, and for which he himself gave his strength and 
means in 1862, is still dear to me. Nor do I yet despair; I 
believe that ere many months have gone by we shall all be safe 
again under the folds of the glorious Stars and Stripes of our own 
United States. I believe that the Southern States will yet pre- 
sent their ultimatum to the North, and when they do, that it will 
be accepted. If not, then I am ready to leave them ; though I 
believe in so doing we have nothing before us but constant civil 
discord, until slavery will be entirely abolished. It is as a pro- 
slavery man that I would preserve the Union. God deliver us 
from the follies to which, out of it, the fire-eaters will try to carry 
us, and the civil discord that will thus come on us ! And all this 
if we are left to ourselves, which I do not expect. As sure as 
we do not arrange some propositions for the North, we shall have 
to go through a long and bloody war." 



186 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

There were many thoughtful men all over the South 
who fully shared this conviction that the Secession move- 
ment would lead to endless discord within the Southern 
States, and to the ultimate destruction of slavery, even 
if the United States Grovemment should not attempt 
coercion of the seceded States, or in attempting should 
fail. Some few of these — in South Carolina a very few — 
refused to give the least moral support to the State or the 
Confederacy in the war that followed. Except in some 
parts of the Border States, it was folly for them to resist 
the local authorities, and they could only remain quiet. 
These were usually old men; and where their character 
commanded respect they were not molested, and some- 
times were even treated with high personal consideration. 
Thus, at this very time Mr. James L. Petigru was ap- 
pointed by the Secession Legislature of South Carolina to 
codify the laws of the State, though his Union sentiments 
were perfectly well understood, and in fact openly avowed 
in conversation. But the great mass of those who opposed 
the Secession movement, and foresaw many of' its dis- 
astrous consequences, still decided to go with the State. 
An eminent Union leader in the up-country was reported 
to have said, *^ South Carolina is going to the devil, and 
I'm going with her." Beared as nearly all of us had 
been, to regard the State as primary, and the United 
States government as the creature of the States, — or, at 
any rate, to feel that somehow we owed principal alle- 
giance to the State, — we could not do otherwise. People 
who care enough for historical truth and personal justice 
to take any pains towards understanding our position must 
recognize this fact. The time had come when we were 
compelled to choose between going with the State and 
supporting the Union, and we felt bound to go with the 
State. Robert E. Lee, who is reported to have said about 
this time that if he owned all the slaves in the country he 
would gladly give them up to save the Union, to whom 



DR. BOYCE'S PART IN THE WAR. 187 

General Scott virtually offered the position of Commatider- 
in-Chief of the United States army, yet quietly resigned 
his colonel's commission, and went home to his native 
State of Virginia, when she had seceded, to offer her his 
services. Even those who most strongly condemn the 
views entertained, surely cannot fail to respect the sacri- 
fices quietly made by many men throughout the South 
from a sentiment of duty. 

The outbreak of the war brought to Dr. Boyce the pro- 
spect of heavy financial losses in Kew York city. The 
great dry-goods jobbing-house in which his father had 
been the principal partner had been continued by a new 
company, comprising two of Dr. Boyce's brothers-in-law, 
with himself and his brother, Kerr Boyce. Some time 
before the war, James Boyce formally withdrew from the 
company, but left them his share of the capital as a loan. 
Their trade was chiefly at the South, and he thought they 
were expanding it too rapidly; and he stipulated that in 
case of approaching failure they should first amply secure 
him for the loan by the transfer of Southern debts. In 
the summer of 1861 the house was compelled to suspend, 
and did transfer to him a seemingly ample amount of 
Southern notes and accounts. But it rapidly grew impos- 
sible to collect these, and the large amount involved was 
mainly a loss, while the matter was destined to come up 
in a still more formidable shape after the war. 

In the autumn of 1861 a new regiment of volunteers 
was recruited in Greenville District by C. J. Elford, a 
famous Greenville lawyer, with a wide reputation as Sun- 
day-school superintendent in the Baptist Church. He 
and Boyce were ardent friends ; and the latter yielded to 
the suggestion of Elford and others, and consented to be- 
come chaplain to the regiment. His brother-in-law, H. A. 
Tupper, had for some time been acting as chaplain to the 
Ninth Georgia. To him Boyce wrote in November that 
the new regiment was expected to be wanted only for 



188 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

special Bervice, local in South Carolina^ and during the 
winter months. There will be another minister in the 
regiment, who can give some aid when he is compelled to 
be absent. If he should be unable to get a furlough in 
April, when the afEairs of the estate will require his special 
attention, he will resign. He esiplains the arrangements 
that he has made as to the estate in general, and his private 
affairs, in case anything should happen to him. He then 
goes on : — 

'^ My greatest anxiety is for the Seminary, as its fdnds are not 
yet all raised. But I think it is safely fixed; and if my past policy 
prevails, and no buildings are commenced until the means are on 
hand, I have no fear of its final success. My wife and children 
ought to have an ample support from my estate. You may think 
that I am writing gloomily, but not so ; I am stating to you, 
lest you feel troubled on my account, how truly safe all things 
are. My times are in the hands of God. If he has other use for 
me here, he will keep me, at home or in the field as well. Thank 
you for your good wishes for my work ; I fully reciprocate them. 
The Lord be with us both, and make us useful." 

In the early part of 1862 Dr. Boyce left the Seminary, 
with its small and diminishing number of students, in the 
care of his colleagues, and went down to the coast with his 
regiment.^ In regard to his brief term of service in that 
capacity we have the following from James McCuUough, 
who succeeded Elford as colonel of the regiment : -^ 

" Dr. Boyce served with us as chaplain while in this State, 
on the c-oast, in the winter of 1861-1862, at Charleston, Adams 
Run, Johns Island, and elsewhere. He was always found at his 
post of duty, and was highly esteemed and much loved by the 
entire regiment. They all had absolute confidence in his Chris- 
tian integrity and manhood. He used to preach us some very 

^ In all his absences during the war, his wife took care of the home, 
the farm, the servants, with great skill and devotion, as did many an- 
other noble Southern lady in those tiying years. 



DB. BOYCE'S PART IN THE WAR. 189 

able and feeling sermons. My mind recurs to one especially, 
where he bad almost the entire regiment in tears. ... I loved 
Dr. Boyce very much, and so did my men; and I believe the 
influence of his godly life was felt by more than one." ^ 

Not only at that time, but throughout the war, he was 
very zealous in visiting the military hospitals, and per- 
sonally striving to promote the bodily and spiritual wel- 
fare of the sufferers. 

The manuscripts contain but little trace of his preaching 
as chaplain. He doubtless found that to read a sermon, 
which had been his favorite method, would seldom answer 
in camp; and there can be no doubt that his preaching 
gained in directness of aim, in personal point, by this 
experience. There are not a few who remember this 
preaching to the soldiers in camp as the most thoroughly 
delightful of all their ministerial experiences. There 
was none of the dull decorum and dead-sea formality which 
often embarrass the preacher's efforts in church, no thou- 
sand toiles of cold air between the preacher and the nearest 
hearer, — nothing but live men, who came because they 
pleased, and listened because they liked; among whom 
you could stand, and lay your hand on a man's head if 
you chose, and look right into his eyes, and talk, man to 
man, about the highest things in time and eternity. 

Dr. Boyce enjoyed his work, but felt compelled to leave 
it, as he had feared might prove necessary, through the 
pressing claims of business in connection with his father's 
estate, its wide and complicated affairs being necessarily 
thrown into great confusion because of the war. So he 
resigned the chaplaincy in May, 1862. Returning home, 
he was elected in October as a representative of Greenville 
District in the South Carolina Legislature. Two years 
later he was re-elected to this office, and served to the close 

1 This excellent gentleman, Colonel McCuUough, lived until Sep- 
tember, 1892. 



190 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

of the war, — say April, 1865. He was remarkably well 
saited for public life. His keen practical insight and 
sound practical judgment had long been exercised with 
the liveliest interest upon public affairs. His extensive 
business relations gave him an extraordinary intelligence 
as to the business interests of the State. He was a bom 
financier; and, while keenly alive to all that the State 
Legislature could do in any respect, he was from the be- 
ginning specially interested in the Confederate finances. 
As early as the summer of 1861, when General McClellan 
was reported to have said, while organizing the great 
army in Washington, that artillery was going to decide 
the war, Boyce remarked to a friend, ** Pshaw! The war 
will be decided by money; the side that manages its 
finances best will succeed." By the end of 1862 every- 
body could see that the financial situation of the Federal 
Government was difficult, and that of the Confederate Gov- 
ernment was perilous. In the beginning of December, 
1862, shortly after the Legislature assembled, he intro- 
duced a resolution to the effect that South Carolina would 
endorse her proportion of two hundred millions of Con- 
federate bonds. When this came back from committee he 
made an elaborate speech, beginning as follows : — 

" Mr. Speaker: At the time I introduced the resolution which 
has secured this favorable report from the Committee of Ways 
and Meaus, I was not aware that any suggestions of the kind had 
been made. I confess that during several months the plan had 
appeared to my mind so advantageous that I was surprised that it 
had not been proposed. Before the committee, however, had 
acted upon the matter the honorable chairman of the Committee 
of Privileges and Elections Mr. Trenholm] showed me a letter 
from one of the most distinguished financiers of this country, sug- 
gesting the importance of such a scheme, and urging him to bring 
it to the attention of this Legislature. The morning after this 
report, and bill was presented to this House, the resolutions of the 
State of Alabama (to which I shall hereafter refer) appeared in 



DR. BOYCE'S PART IN THE WAR. 191 

the * Gaardian ' of this city; and a paragraph in the Charleston 
* Courier ' of yesterday, copied from the Richmond * Whig/ in- 
forms us that at as early a period as the 16th of May last, the 
subject of a guarantee of the Confederate debt by the different 
States was suggested to Congress by the State of Virginia, ac- 
companied by the request that it be brought before the attention 
of the other States. The facts thus referred to, joined with the 
unanimous approval of a committee of the House, have embold- 
ened me to task your attention for a short time, that I may urge 
upon this House a measure which I deem of the most vital inter- 
est to the whole government and people. 

'^The superficial observer looks upon our present national 
struggle simply in the light of its military achievement. The 
abilities of our generals, the bravery of our troops, the successful 
issue of our battles, — these are to such an one the great objects 
of interest; and by them he measures the fate of the Republic. 
That these do enter, and that largely, into the issue, none can 
question ; without the men whom God has given as leaders, and 
without the troops, such as have never been excelled for bravery or 
daring, more than all, without that military success which, under 
the blessing of God, we have achieved, we might well despair, 
nay, we had been already ruined. 

"But there is another power, which, though almost unper- 
ceived, affects more deeply the issues of the contest, — the power 
of the purse : a power in modem times that far exceeds that of the 
sword, and in fact controls the world. It has long been recog- 
nized in Europe, the crowned heads of which are completely 
dependent upon it. At its beck war is made, and peace is de- 
clared. In this hemisphere, in the present war, its gigantic 
influence has been felt. Were it not for the aid obtained from 
Wall Street and the other financial circles of the United States, 
the President of that government could not continue a single day 
this unnatural warfare ; on the other hand, had not the action of 
the banks of this Confederacy been as patriotic and self-sacrificing 
as it has, we were already ruined, — fljring before our ruthless foe, 
unable to sustain ourselves at all against the vast hosts which 
have been raised up against us. They who wield, the finances in 
each section have, in truth, in their grasp the welfare of both, 
and we have reason not only to be proud of, but to be grateful tO; 



192 MEMOIB OF JAMES P. BOYCB. 

the banks of this couDtry for the unlimited confidence which they 
have manifested towards oar government, and the determination 
they have shown to sustain it at all hazards, even at the risk of 
their own financial destruction. 

*^ It is because the welfare of the country is thus so indiss(»lu- 
bly united with its financial prosperity that I regard the measure 
betbre us as one of the greatest importance. It is in vain to 
attempt to raise armies if, when called into the field, they can 
neither be paid, supported, clothed, fed, nor armed. To do 
these things requires immense resources. With prosperous 
fi nances, we can fight on amid the heaviest losses and reverses. 
With our finances in ruin, our armies become demoralized, our 
sources of supply are cut off, and the advancing tread of the 
invader is triumphant. How important, then, that they be looked 
after, and if evils aiise, that the cause of those evils and their 
proper remedy be sought. 

** The time has come, Mr. Speaker, when it behooves us to 
look well to this matter. The present condition of our finances is 
fearful, and were it not for the remedy which we have, would be 
actually appalling. The amount of our expenditures has already 
reached five hundred millions of dollars. Do gentlemen realize 
this f Uo they know what it means f Have we ever attempted 
to get any other conception of it than that it is a vast sum of 
money, beyond the ordinary measure of calculation f Let us try 
to realize what it is. According to the late War Tax returns, the 
whole value of South Carolina — lands, negroes, money at inter- 
est, and the various other items included under that scheme — was 
a little less than four hundred millions of dollars. And the Con- 
federacy has spent iive hundred millions of dollars in the prose- 
cution of the war thus far. It is as though the whole State of 
South Carolina had been blotted from the resources of this Con- 
federacy. Nor ciiu we fully estimate what the war has actually 
cost our people until an accurate account be taken as well of the 
vast amount of voluntary contributions for hospital purjioses, 
raised by the energies mostly of the noble women of the land, as 
of the munificent expenditures of individual citizens and corpora- 
tions in raising and equipping regiments for the field.'' 

Mr. Boyce then went on to show, with great practical 
point and clearness, and the most comprehensive view of 



DR. BOYCE'S PART IN THE WAR. 193 

all the conditions involved, the advantages of such an 
arrangement. The result was that the bill passed both 
Houses, and became a law. A proposition had been made 
in Alabama that the State should endorse all of the Con- 
federate debt, without limitation. Mr. Boyce showed the 
great advantage of his plan, since the endorsed bonds 
would at once command a premium, and enable the Con- 
federate Government to bring its finances into a more 
healthy situation. On December 30th he wrote an elab- 
orate letter to the Richmond "Enquirer " upon this point, 
showing beyond question the great superiority of a limited 
endorsement. The Confederate Government took hold 
of this movement with heartiness. The Secretary of the 
Treasury appointed Mr. Boyce as its "agent or commis- 
sioner to the Legislatures of various States, to endeavor to 
secure the passage of Acts for State endorsement of Con- 
federate bonds, similar to that which he carried through 
the Legislature of South Carolina." We have a report of 
an address which he made in this capacity before the 
Georgia Legislature on April 1st, 1863, in which the 
objections to the proposed plan are carefully stated, and 
answered with great terseness and force. One expression 
was definitely prophetic of what occurred within two years. 
"But let our finances be ruined, let food and clothing 
continue to advance until our soldiers find their families 
are starving and naked, they will return to attend to that 
first of all duties, — to provide for their own households.'' 
It was precisely this that reduced General Lee's army, 
during the winter of 1864-1865, to such small numbers 
that he was compelled to evacuate the Petersburg defences, 
and presently to surrender at Appomattox. When the 
soldier's monthly pay would buy scarcely half a bushel of 
corn, when word came from many a home that they were 
already suffering for lack of food, and hopeless as to rais- 
ing a crop for the coming year, then many a husband and 
father did that which nothing else on earth could have 

13 



194 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

induced him to do, — left his place in the ranks, and went 
home. As Boyce had said foar years before, it was money 
that decided the war. 

We have no definite information as to the reason why 
Dr. Boyce's project was not carried through. But we 
know that three months after his speech before the Georgia 
Legislature, General Lee was defeated at Gettysburg, and 
hope of European intervention, or of European demand for 
Confederate securities, was nearly lost, while at the same 
time General Grant captured Vicksburg, and pressed into 
the interior of Mississippi ; and these facts would appear 
sufficiently to explain why the plan in question was tacitly 
abandoned. 

Still, the Confederates had no thought of anything else 
than perseverance in the struggle. In August, 1863, Dr. 
Boyce became a candidate for the Confederate Congress, in 
opposition to Colonel James Farrow, of Spartanburg. He 
stumped the district for a number of weeks in August, 
September, and October. At many points he was met by 
Colonel Farrow, in the old-fashioned joint debate. Rev. 
Edward C. Logan, an Episcopal clergyman, of South 
Carolina, who had been Boyce's fellow-student at the 
Charleston College, was refugeeing at Reidville, in Spartan- 
burg District, and went to hear Boyce at a place not far 
distant. ** He greeted me very cordially, and seemed 
gratified at having an old class-mate and fellow-Charles- 
tonian to hear him. He spoke well. His first speech 
(leading off in the debate) was in manuscript, and he read 
it tolerably closely ; but in replying to Colonel Farrow he 
spoke of course without notes, and spoke well. He lost 
the election ; but that is not much to be wondered at when 
we consider that he was pitted against a gentleman who 
had won, I am told, in thirty popular elections.'' 

Besides the remarkable popularity of his antagonist, 
Boyce 's defeat was partly due to the fact that a good many 
Baptists, who were numerous in that Congressional Dis- 



DR. BOYCE'S PART IN THE WAR. 196 

trict, were really opposed to hs^ving a Baptist minister go 
to Congress. It is possible that if he had been elected, 
his service 'in the Confederate Congress would have pro- 
duced such a penchant for political debate and public life 
that he might not have resisted the earnest efforts of some 
friends after the war to bring him out as candidate for the 
Congress of the United States. His experience in stump- 
speaking, as well as in the Legislature, distinctly improved 
his methods of preaching, as he himself was aware in later 
years. Mr. Logan heard him at an early period in his 
round of the Congressional District, and the manuscript 
is believed to have been pretty soon abandoned. He con- 
tinued through life to prefer reading a sermon; but he 
was much at his best in a practical address before some 
religious convention or association, when saturated with 
his subject, and speaking with perfect freedom. 

In a letter of Sept. 23, 1864, to his sister, Mrs. Tupper 
(whose husband was in the army as chaplain), he tells her 
that kid gloves are not to be had, and lisle-thread gloves 
cost fifteen dollars. He had some time before seen single- 
width merino dress-goods in Augusta at fifty dollars a yard, 
and hears it is now a hundred, but thinks he can still get 
it for her at fifty. Many queer stories might be gathered 
about prices during the last twelve months of the war, that 
would be a warning now to the '^ plenty of money " people, 
if anything could warn them. 

From November, 1864, to the end of the war, Mr. Boyce 
was aid^-de-camp to Governor A. G. Magrath, with the 
rank of lieutenant-colonel, and was a member of the 
Council of State, repeatedly consulted by the governor in 
those troublous times. As aide-de-camp. Colonel Boyce 
was acting Provost-Marshal of Columbia at the time 
of its capture by General Sherman. The general states in 
his Memoirs — of course upon information given him — 
that the burning of Columbia was due to a quantity of 
cotton piled in one of the streets, and fired by some of 



196 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Hampton's cavalry in retiring at his approach. Bnt 
Boyce always declared that so far as he could ascertain, 
then or afterwards, he was himself the veiy last Conr 
federate that rode out of Golumhia, as the invaders came 
up the street, and the cotton had not then heen fired at 
all. He retreated with the governor to Charlotte in North 
Carolina, and thence made his way across a hundred miles, 
a good part of the distance on foot, to his home at 
Greenville. 

A few weeks later, a small brigade of Union cavalry 
came across the Blue Bidge, with a view to intercept the 
retreat of Jefferson Davis and his party through Central 
South Carolina into Georgia. The troops encamped at 
Greenville, and under pretext of searching for firearms, 
they searched many houses for jewelry and other valuables. 
Dr. Boyce's house stood in the edge of the town, and the 
large building and spacious lawn would soon attract their 
attention, besides the fact that from some source they were 
informed that the family possessed a large amount of plate 
and jewelry, including some diamonds. So, after seizing 
the horses, they proceeded to plunder the entire house, 
bursting open closets and wardrobes and trunks, and 
flinging everything about, in the wild search for precious 
things. Then they held pistols to Dr. Boyce's head, and 
demanded to know what had become of his wife's diamonds 
and the other jewelry. He told them quietly that, learning 
of their approach the day before, he had intrusted all his 
plate and other valuables to his brother, who had taken 
them in a wagon and driven away. They asked furiously 
where his brother had gone; and he answered that he did 
not know at all, that he had asked his brother not to tell 
him. They stormed, and threatened to burn and kill; but 
his calm replies at length convinced them, and they left, 
carrying away, among many other articles of clothing and 
what not, the wonderful warm overcoat in which Boyce had 
so carefully wrapped his invalid friend five years before, — 



DR. BOYCE'S PART IN THE WAR. 197 

which must have been small comfort to them on that sum- 
mer expedition^ but was doubtless worth carrying back to 
the climate they came from. Many other dwellings in 
Greenville were plundered in like manner; though the 
higher officers^ when they could be got at, would usually 
send a subaltern with us to the house indicated, and order 
the men away. A party of them learned by inq^uiry where 
the bank was ; and entering the building, they went 
promptly to the cellar, tapped the wall till the sound 
changed, then tore out the bricks, and appropriated a good 
many thousands in specie which the careful bank president 
had very secretly walled in, some months before. Ah, 
they were old hands. Walt Whitman ought to have 
written a so-called poem in their praise. 



198 MEMOIB OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 



CHAPTER XIIL 

FmST SIX TEARS AT GBEENYILLE AFTER THE WAR. 

1866-1871. 

EARLY in the summer of 1865 Dr. Boyce called the 
four professors together at Greenville to consult as 
to the possibility of keeping the Seminary alive, and 
beginning operations in October. 

The prospect was sufficiently discouraging. The Semi- 
nary had practically nothing. A large part of the sub- 
scriptions for endowment had, as we have seen, been paid 
in Confederate money and invested in Confederate bonds, 
and so had become an utter loss. Fortunately there was 
no debt. In fact, like many other things that we call 
*' fortunate," this was the result of wise arrangements from 
the beginning. Had Boyce undertaken at the outset to 
erect buildings, as most institutions do, we should have 
had an unfinished building and a debt. But subscriptions 
remaining unpaid were now practically worthless. The 
whole land had been swept as by a cyclone. Several 
thousand millions of property in the Southern States had 
perished, including the value of the slaves, the Confed- 
erate debt, and outstanding currency, the war debt of 
several States (which they were required to repudiate in 
order to reconstruction), and the greatly diminished value 
of land. Almost all those who had been wealthy before 
the war were now really poor, many of them burdened 
with old debts which had formerly seemed a trifle, but 
now,. with accumulated interest, were a millstone around 
the neck of the impoverished planter or merchant. The 
whole labor system was broken into fragments as by an 



AT GREENVILLE AFTER THE WAR. 199 

earthquake, and no man could calculate on the business 
future. There was no currency in circulation until the 
cotton which planters had kept on hand could per- 
chance be sold. Numerous families, formerly prosperous, 
or at least comfortable, had not a dollar of money for 
many months after the close of the war. How could it be 
deemed possible, in such a situation, and amid all the 
social and political uncertainty, that people would contri- 
bute thousands of dollars during the next twelve months 
to support an institution of higher education? There were 
the churches to be sustained; the schools of every grade 
must be revived, if possible ; the colleges had lost much or 
all of their endowment; and the State universities were 
likely to be helpless, when it could hardly be said that the 
States any longer existed. 

On the other hand, the logic of human nature proved 
that people would do something. By a remarkable special 
providence, the war had ended at such a time that if the 
Confederate soldiers hurried home, and went to work imme- 
diately on arriving, they might hope to raise crops of corn 
and cotton. So, far and wide over the land the planters 
were at work. Moreover, the colored people were in gen- 
eral well disposed towards their former owners, because in 
general they had been kindly treated, and thus most of 
them were working too, with such temporary, and indefi- 
nite plans as could be arranged between them and the 
owners of land. We knew also that the Southern whites 
were upon the whole a high-toned people. They had sub- 
mitted to the arbitrament of war, and would keep their 
word; but they had not lost all self-respect and self- 
reliance. They had nothing to be ashamed of in the way 
they had struggled against overwhelming superiority of 
resources. The returned soldiers could talk without fear 
about the battles they had fought. There was pluck in the 
people. Most of all, we felt a submissive trust in Provi- 
dence. Through all the dark years our people had been 



200 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

trying to do their duty according to their light, and mul- 
titudes only wanted to know what was their duty now. 

Dr. Boyce stated that he held five thousand dollars of 
Georgia Bailroad bonds, ^ which in all probability could be 
sold before long, not for par, but for a considerable sum. 
While quite unable to tell as yet whether much would be 
left of his own estate, he offered to make a personal con- 
tribution of one thousand dollars for the coming session ; 
and he believed that when the cotton on hand in various 
parts of the country should be sold, and the new crop 
should come in, it would be possible to find friends here 
and there who would make larger or smaller gifts. It was 
an uncertain future, but everything around us was uncer- 
tain. He pointed out that our Seminary, which after 
years of effort made so hopeful a beginning, had no small 
hold on the confidence and affection of the Baptist people 
in several States, and so might possibly keep alive; while 
if it were abandoned, a whole generation or more must 
elapse, and we be all in our graves, before brethren would 
have the heart to attempt again the establishment of a 
Common Theological School. We had prayed over the 
question, again and again. Presently some one said, 
*^ Suppose we quietly agree that the Seminary may die, 
but we'll die first." All heads were silently bowed, and 
the matter was decided. 

We had small means of advertising the intention to re- 
open the institution. The religious newspapers had nearly 
all stopped, and were able to resume only in the autumn or 

* These had come from H. A. Tapper, in payment of his original 
subscription for the Seminary, and they probably saved its life at this 
crisis. The sale was postponed till November, 1866, when they brought 
3,878 dollars. Boyce's own subscription of like amount was paid be- 
fore the war in land in the edge of Greenville well worth that amount. 
After the war this was unsalable, but before we removed from Green- 
ville it was sold at a very handsome advance upon the original sub- 
scription. 



AT GREENVILLE AFTER THE WAR. 201 

winter. It was some time before the United States mail 
could be re-established, especially as many railroads were 
destroyed. We could not hope to have many students, but 
we could begin, and hope for a future. So the session 
opened October 1st, and the whole number of students that 
came during the session was seven, — from Virginia one, 
North Carolina one. South Carolina four, Alabama one. 
It is remembered that the Professor of Homiletics had but 
one student in the class, and that a blind man. But we 
were determined to keep up the instruction in every depart- 
ment \ and as the student could not read text-books, the pro- 
fessor tried to lay out a somewhat complete course, and give 
it to him in lectures, to which the brother listened with 
unfailing manifestations of kindly interest. A work which 
appeared five years later, entitled, ** Preparation and De- 
livery of Sermons," and which a good many persons have 
found useful, quite possibly owed its origin to that year's 
lessons with the blind student. We often find that by 
** doing the thing that is next '' to us, even though it be 
''the day of small things," we find the way opening for 
undertakings which otherwise might never have been 
planned. It would be pleasant to speak of several men 
among the seven students, two or three of them now quite 
well known ; but such mention cannot be kept up throughout 
the coming history, and is better abandoned at once. 

Let us look now at Dr. Boyce's personal history just 
after the war. In August, 1865, President Andrew 
Johnson, through the military governor, called a " Con- 
stitutional Convention of the State of South Carolina," 
aud of this Convention James P. Boyce was elected a 
member. Among the members were Ex-Governor Pickens, 
Colonel Orr, Chancellor Lesesne, General McGowan, and 
others of the most distinguished men of the State. The im- 
portant point was to get for the new constitution a proper 
statement as to slavery, which had been actually abolished 
as a military act, but must now be forbidden by the State 



202 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

itself. It is stated by Mr. W. G. Whilden that after numer- 
ous forms had been proposed by eminent members, with much 
discussion, the article finally adopted for the constitution 
was that suggested by Dr. Boyce. In October we find, from 
a letter to Mr. Tupper, that friends were earnestly urging 
Boyce to become a candidate for the United States Con- 
gress; but he meant to keep out of it if possible. During 
that month he was in New York city, and bought a variety 
of articles of clothing for the Tupper family, and doubtless 
also for his own. The long years of war had left us all in 
a queer fix as to decent clothing, and the want had to be 
supplied by most of us very slowly ; for, besides the diffi- 
culty of securing money, everything was at fully double 
price, owing to the inflation of the United States currency 
and the general feeling of uncertainty as to finance. 

The war caused Dr. Boyce heavy losses in many direc- 
tions. After the Confederate bonds became of doubtful 
value he invested largely in some new bonds issued by 
the State of Alabama; but President Johnson required 
these to be repudiated as a condition of reconstruction. 
We have seen that he lost nearly all of the large sum lent 
to the New York house conducted by his brothers-in- 
law and brother, in consequence of their failure at the 
outset H)f the war, and the difficulty of collecting the 
Southern debts turned over to him. But this was not 
the worst. The New York creditors tried to hold him 
responsible for all the debts of the establishment, which 
would have swept away every cent he had. Their lawyers 
detected some technical defect in the articles of agree- 
ment by which he had withdrawn from the house, and had 
simply lent to the new company what had formerly been 
his share in the capital. Their course was flagrantly un- 
just, for the design of the agreement was obvious; but 
most men insist upon all that the law will give them. It 
was a mere question of legal quibble and conflict. For 
some time he could not enter the city of New York, at 



AT GREENVILLE AFTER THE WAR. 203 

s 

least openly, for fear of being arrested by these men. On 
one occasion he sent Dr. Manly to look into the matter. 
At another time he stayed a good while in Newark, N. J. 
Mr. Whilden was then with him, and speaks of the cheer- 
fulness which Boyce maintained under all this pressure 
of obvious wrong and possible ruin. He often entertained 
his friend for hours by reading aloud, — a pastime to 
which his rich, sonorous voice and his sympathetic nature 
always gave a special charm. Whilden still remembers 
various passages of Scripture as he read them. 

At length Dr. Boyce himself, more keen-sighted than 
his lawyers, detected a legal flaw in the procedure of his 
adversaries. The law required (if the matter is correctly 
remembered) that notice of any business claim which was 
interrupted by war should be sent within six months 
after the cessation of hostilities. The notice received by 
Boyce was dated much more than six months after the end 
of the war, and it made no allusion to any previous notice 
to the same effect. This is a good example of proving a 
negative in away sufficient for practical conviction, though 
not theoretically complete. With one technicality arrayed 
against another, the result was a compromise; and the 
considerable sum which he agreed to pay occupied much 
of his attention for several years, and drew heavily upon 
what remained of his estate. Furthermore, he had been 
one of the committee for erecting the Female College 
building in Greenville, and in like manner of the com- 
mittee for building the Baptist church. A large debt 
remained in each case, now greatly increased by interest 
at seven per cent per annum. In both committees Dr. 
Boyce was about the only man who had any available 
property left, and with him all was uncertain, because of 
the New York affair and other matters. These debts also 
he finally compromised at about one third of principal and 
interest, the church aiding a good deal in the payment of 
the debt for its house of worship. 



204 BCEMOIR OF JAMES F. BOYCE. 

This rate for settlement of antebellum debt rapidly be- 
came common in upper South Carolina, at the suggestion 
of the celebrated James L. Orr, who had become judge of 
the Circuit Court. In opening court at Greenville, Judge 
Orr reviewed the financial situation, and dwelt especially 
upon these old debts. He pointed out that if the debts 
had been paid before the war, and invested, as was com- 
mon, in land and negroes, the owners would not now be 
possessing more than one third of the original value, as 
the slave property was gone, and the land depreciated. 
He said the Legislature could do nothing to give relief in 
such cases; for if it should pass any law '^ impairing the 
obligation of contract," the courts must necessarily declare 
it in violation of the United States Constitution, and 
therefore of no effect. But he said that a petty jury is 
a very remarkable institution. When a debt has been 
proven, the jury can give judgment for such amount as it 
may think right and proper; and if, in case of these debts 
from before the war, the juries should, as a rule (making 
exception of peculiar cases), give judgment for about one 
third of principal and interest, he did not see how the 
court would have any cause to object, and it was quite 
likely that the public welfare would be greatly promoted. 
Upon this hint several juries quietly acted, until credi- 
tors began to apprehend the situation, and would agree to 
settle at this rate, without the expense and delay of a law- 
suit. The idea spread rapidly in that region, being quite 
generally approved by the judgment of thoughtful men. 
Pity something equivalent was not done in many other 
Southern States, where the old debts occasioned grievous 
distress for years and years. 

The above details of Dr. Boyce's private affairs have 
been given in order to show how difficult and trying was 
the situation in which he undertook to hold up the Semi- 
nary. A good many of its friends were prompt to think 
that he would sustain the institution from his private 



AT GREENVILLE AFTER THE WAR. 205 

means, and the idea spread widely that he was actually 
doing so. He could not afford to let his real business 
situation become known to the public, because that would 
have brought demands from every side, and cut him off 
from the possibility of working matters through. What 
he did was to borrow money in bank, as a personal debt, 
secured by his own collateral, and use this to meet the 
salaries of the professors, which were small enough, and 
really wojth only one half, in consequence of the high 
prices. In April, 1866, he gave such a note in bank for 
seven thousand dollars, in order to settle for the year, 
having already advanced the money from time to time. 
This state of things continued for years and years, with 
sums varying according to the contributions received. In 
April, 1868, his notels in bank for the purpose rose to 
eleven thousand dollars, eighteen months later were re- 
duced to half that amount, and afterwards increased again. 
To keep up these loans was often a sore burden. He 
needed his collateral for other purposes. He saw oppor- 
tunities for profitable investment, but could not use them. 
Of course the Seminary paid the interest on loans thus 
effected for its benefit. 

In the summer of 1866 he made desperate exertions to 
collect for the Seminary's support. In May, when the 
Southern Baptist Convention met, at Kussellville, Ky., for 
the first time after the war, he received in cash $1203.50. 
In June he got in Baltimore $367, and in Bichmond $359. 
In July he made collections in Missouri and Kentucky 
to the amount of $654. Some few persons made partial 
payments on old bonds. It cost heavily to send out agents 
in different directions, and to pay the travelling expenses 
of various professors sent to different points, in addition 
to his own journeys. 

So the matter went on year after year, with earnest 
appeals at every promising point that could be reached. 
On July 1, 1867, he sent far and wide a lithographed let- 



206 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

ter, explaining the work of the Seminary, and setting forth 
its pressing needs. This states that during the year pre- 
ceding he had obtained some $50,000 in bonds for five 
annual payments; ^ but on most of these the first payment 
was not yet due, and money was sorely needed. Through 
the unsettled state of business in every respect, a consider- 
able portion of these annual bonds was in fact never paid, 
and the amount had to be supplemented in every possible 
way. Some years later, a similar efEort was made to 
obtain five-year bonds. 

^ Rev. Cleon Keyes, a gifted and now venerable minister in north- 
ern Kentucky, relates that Dr. Boyce came in 1866 to the Bracken 
Association, in the region adjacent to Cincinnati. He wanted to meet 
the popular objections to ministerial, especially to theological, educa- 
tiou, and it was privately arranged that Keyes should speak in opposition 
to the resolution introduced. Ue brought out strongly the familiar 
objections, and felt persuaded in concluding that Boyce would have 
difficulty in answering; he even feared that harm might be done. But 
his nan-ative proceeds: "The Doctor arose, perfectly calm and self- 
possessed, to make his address. He was then in his prime, — a mag- 
nificent specimen of well-developed manhood ; his voice was clear and 
strong, and his words as they fell from his lips seemed as if coined for 
the occasion. He at first, in the most courteous manner, completely 
demolished the objections raised in my speech, and then proceeded to 
deliver one of the ablest addresses on theological education I have ever 
heard from any one. When he closed, he had captured the whole Asso- 
ciation. Everybody seemed ready to give a bond, running five years, 
to keep the Seminary alive until a permanent endowment could be 
secured. Many thought strange that his opponent in the discussion 
was the first to offer a bond, and some said afterwards, to the great 
amusement of Dr. Boyce, that it was the quickest conversion they had 
ever witnessed." The two men became warm friends, and in later 
years, when Boyce removed to Kentucky, and sought to provide for 
removing the Seminary, Mr. Keyes was an ever-ready helper, even 
travelling with him for two weeks through the churches of the 
Bracken. Mr. Keyes speaks very warmly of some sermons Boyoe 
preached during these journeys, and adds: " Had he devoted himself to 
the pulpit, he would, I doubt not, have taken rank with the ablest 
preachpfs of the American pulpit. ... As an agent he was a prince 
among men, commanding the confidence and love of all.*' 



AT GREENVILLE AFTER THE WAR. 207 

It is liardly best to go through the details of these varied 
and often desperate exertions, year after year. At one 
time he concluded that it would be best to cease borrowing 
money for paying the salaries, and let it be understood 
that they were far in arrears. So pretty soon the profes- 
sors had received no salary for twelve months, and could 
not be sure they ever would receive it; and under these 
circumstances they had to buy the necessaries of life from 
Greenville dealers on twelve months credit, with corre- 
sponding addition to the price as a matter of course. 
Pathetic details might be given of the real distress and 
humiliation under which the professors worked on through 
those years of trial. But let all that pass. There were 
not a few other professors, in various Southern colleges, 
who suffered equally, in some cases perhaps more. To do 
the work of two or three men on half the salary of one man, 
with that salary in arrears and no certainty of ever receiv- 
ing it, was a common experience. Some of these men 
were repeatedly invited to comparatively large salaries in 
more favored institutions or more prosperous parts of the 
country, but they stood by the work which Providence had 
appointed them. And above all the heroic sacrifices which 
professors made in those days, above even the unconquer- 
able and really splendid exertions of Dr. Boyce to obtain 
the necessary funds, rose the zealous devotion of many 
contributors. Struggling business men who needed every 
dollar they could command, pastors and other men living 
on uncertain salary, who knew not whether they could 
make ends meet with the ending year, often gave gifts 
very large for their circumstances, and accompanied by 
words of utmost kindness and cheer. It was simply mag- 
nificent, the way in which our Southern people during the 
years that followed the war, just struggling to get on their 
feet financially, amid all the humiliations and solicitudes 
of the Reconstruction period, yet resolutely held up their 
churches and their colleges, and whatever belonged to their 



208 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

higher civilization. These and their homes often seemed 
all that was left to them. These must not, should not, 
perish. An inferior people would have let the higher 
education go. But Southerners had always valued higher 
education, however deficient their provision for instructing 
poor children. And they not simply did themselves honor, 
they revealed their real character, by holding up those 
institutions through all the years of Breconstruction, which 
in some States were far more trying than the years of war. 

It would be a pleasure to mention some notably generous 
givers whose names appear in the treasurer's books for this 
period. But one would not know where to cease. And 
small sums were often given with quite as much of sacrifice 
and loving devotion as the largest gifts. TJie record is 
tempting, for it contains names of Baptist men and women 
greatly honored among us, and greatly deserving to be 
honored. It must be mentioned that in 1868 the Board 
requested Professor Manly <* to solicit funds, especially at 
the North,'' for the personal expenses of needy students. 
In Philadelphia and New York he obtained contributions 
for this purpose that were not only liberal, but given with 
marked cordiality; and this was continued in response to 
like application in several following years. At a later 
period also the Seminary will be found to have received 
very generous aid from honored brethren at the North. 

In 1868, amid all his wearisome journeying, and often 
poorly successful appeals, and struggling efforts of every 
kind to sustain the Seminary, and his personal losses and 
anxieties. Dr. Boyce was privately offered, and urged to 
accept, the ofiice of President of the South Carolina Rail- 
road Company, with a salary of $10,000 per annum. To 
Mr. Whilden, who had been asked to communicate the offer, 
he replied, ^' Thank the gentlemen for me, but tell them I 
must decline, as I have decided to devote my life, if need 
be, to building up the Southern Baptist Theological Sem- 
inary." There were like offers in later years. It was not 



AT GREENVILLE AFTER THE WAR. 209 

simply a personal sacrifice to turn away from such oppor- 
tunitiesy for besides the fact that by living in Charleston 
or in New York city he might have regained his own 
estate, he felt an intense desire to help his brothers and 
sisters in regard to their property^ so much of which had 
been lost in consequence of the war. He was also sadly 
hindered in his work as professor by this frequent journey- 
ing and almost perpetual anxiety in regard to the Sem- 
inary's finances. How often he must have looked sadly 
around upon his noble library when setting out for some 
new begging expedition, and felt the pang of parting from 
the books he loved so well ! He was also ambitious as to 
his special studies. His colleagues in their departments, 
and professors elsewhere in his department, could be push- 
ing their studies, mastering their subjects; but he — he 
must go o& again and beg. True, there was some compen- 
sation. He liked to travel. It gave him needed exercise, 
which at home he was apt to neglect. He could sleep 
well on the train, even when sitting in the ordinary car. 
He read a great deal on such journeys, chiefly poetry, of 
which he was very fond, or romances and other light works, 
including many French books in the original, but some- 
times a history, occasionally a work of profound thought, 
according to his mood and his health. It is a man's duty 
to make the best of everything, and he had a cheerful 
spirit, which would usually rise triumphant over all 
sacrifice and trial. 

In October, 1869, he wrote from Charleston to a young 
relative who was a pupil in Professor John Hart's famous 
school for girls at Charlottesville, Ya., and we make an 
extract : — 

" While you are in Yirginia yon will hear a great deal about the 
war, and see many men who have been in battle. Suppose you 
keep a little book, and whenever yon hear any matter of interest 
write it down in your book, being particnlar to keep the dates and 
names of persotis perfectly correct, and to state the events as fully 

14 



210 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

as yoa can recollect them. Always be aceorate, only puttiiig 
down what yon know was said, and also the name of the narrator. 
You will hear a great deal as interesting as ' Surrey of Eagle's 
Nest/ or as many other books yon have read of adventure and 
heroism. Whatever else may be the verdict of history, — let its 
writers be so befogged as to believe that the North fonght to firee 
the slaveS; and not for its own selfish interests of gain, and that 
the South fought to defend slavery, and not the constitutional 
rights of the States, — one thing is sure, that history must accord 
to the Confederate army in Virginia, under Generals Lee, Jackson, 
and (»thers, the exhibition of fortitude, bravery, chivalric courtesy, 
and knightly courage never surpassed in any nation or period of 
time. Try then to hear of these things, and remember.'' 

The internal history of the Seminary during these years 
showed steady progress. We have seen that in the first 
session after the war there were but seven students. In the 
second there were fifteen, and in the third thirty-one. In 
these two sessions (1866-1868) Virginia still kept the lead, 
and South Carolina had very few, — probably on account 
of the Reconstruction troubles, which in that State were 
felt so keenly. In the next session (1868-1869) Virginia 
fell off to five, and South Carolina rose to fourteen, and 
always afterwards kept the lead while the Seminary re- 
mained in that State. The whole number that fourth year 
was forty-six, and for the next year it rose to sixty-one, 
with a marked increase from Georgia, Alabama, and Mis- 
sissippi, with two from Texas, five from Kentucky, and 
four from Missouri. The following year (1870-1871) the 
number fell back to fifty-three; but afterwards steadily 
grew again, till for the four last sessions at Greenyille 
there were from sixty-six to sixty-eight students. 

In 1869 the finances were in a more hopeful condition, 
and the Board of Trustees approved Boyce's purchase (on 
credit) of the Goodlet House, — a hotel which had been 
occupied hj the United States garrison after the war, and 
which, as now thoroughly repaired, furnished dormitories 
and dining-room for the students, where they could live 



AT GREENVILLE AFTER THE WAR. 211 

much more cheaply than in boarding-houses or private 
families. It was otherwise also a good investment,- for the 
building was sold, when the Seminary moved away, for 
much more than it had cost. 

The same year the Board appointed, at the faculty's 
request, a fifth professor, Kev. Crawford H. Toy. It has 
been heretofore mentioned that Professor Toy was a student 
of the Seminary during its first year. Since the war he 
had spent two years in Europe, devoting himself chiefly to 
the Arabic and Sanscrit languages. He had now been for 
a year the Professor of Greek in Furman University, and 
was already a man of great attainments, not only in lan- 
guage, but in physical science and in general literature. In 
the Seminary he was made Professor of the Old Testament 
and Oriental Languages.^ The special desire in adding a 
fifth professor was to relieve Dr. Boyce of teaching Pole- 
mics, and Dr. Broadus of Homiletics, as the latter's health 

^ Professor Toy's inaugural lecture was published as a pamphlet, 
and discussed '* The Claims of Biblical Interpretation on Baptists." 
He shows that ** on Baptists there rests a special obligation in regard to 
the Scriptures," because of " our complete dependence on the Bible." 
We profess to make it, and it alone, our religion. We accept all 
that it teaches, and nothing else. ... If we could lean on the 
decisions of Councils, Convocations, or Assemblies, . . . royal or 
episcopal decrees, array of patristic, scholastic, and other lore, . . . 
it might not be so needful for us to cling close to the word of God as 
our sole guide; but now we have no other resource. It is our pole-star. 
Without it we are on a boundless ocean, wrapped in darkness." He 
urges that for right interpretation of the Bible we need, on the one 
hand, ** learning and thought," and, on the other hand, ** the inspiration 
and guidance of the Holy Spirit." After discussing at length the 
history of interpretation in all ages, he points out as the result that we 
must in any passage consider, (1) the meaning of the words; (2) the 
context; (3) the relations of this passage to the whole of the divine 
revelation of truth; (4) the Christian consciousness, with solemn invo- 
cation of the presence of the Holy Spirit. He says: "A fundamental 
principle of our Hermeneutics must be that the Bible, its real asser- 
tions being known, is in every iota of its substance absolutely and 
infallibly true." 



212 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

was impaired, and Homiletics, in addition to New Testa- 
ment, was proving too much for him, and as Dr. Boyce was 
so much hindered by business cares and journeyings. Dr. 
Manly, who was highly versatile, and quite varied in his 
attainments, consented to take Polemics and Homiletics in 
connection with Biblical Introduction, which he retained. 
These arrangements gave needed relief and promised ex- 
cellent results, and the large increase in the number of 
students the following session was very encouraging. 

Still, the financial needs would grow pressing, and Boyce 
must journey in this direction or that, and repeat his vehe- 
ment pleadings. His sister relates that he once made an 
appeal, in the Citadel Square Church of Charleston, until 
she sat and wept to hear him beg so hard. In addressing 
the Southern Baptist Convention he once said, '^ I halve 
begged for this Seminary as I would not beg for myself if 
I were starving; " and his proud face proved it true. Judge 
Pressley relates that in January, 1870, he went with Dr. 
Boyce from Charleston to Chattanooga as attorney for the 
Boyce estate, to supervise the sale of certain property. 
Unexpected legal complications were contrived by the pur- 
chasers, which would long delay payment. At one o'clock 
at night Pressley awoke in their chamber, and found that 
Boyce, in the other bed, was not asleep. So he said, ^^I 
think all this will come out straight!" Boyce replied, 
" What I am troubled about is the Seminary. I have been 
advancing funds, and more money is pressingly needed 
now. I expected to get the money here; how can I keep 
the Seminary going?" Pressley suggested that the insti- 
tution might be suspended; but Boyce answered, "That 
would kill it ; and I '11 spend every cent I have rather than 
suspend." Soon after this he began a new effort to obtain 
five-year bonds, and the responses were so encouraging 
that he grew more hopeful. 

In May, 1870, Dr. Boyce gave a signal proof of his per- 
sonal generosity, in suggesting to the Board of Trustees 



AT GREENVILLE AFTER THE WAR. 213 

that his colleague, Professor Broadus, should be sent to 
Europe for his health, on leave of absence for a year, with 
salary and provision for expenses. Boyce had long keenly 
desired to go to Europe himself. He spoke of it in his 
letters when a student at Princeton, when pastor at Colum- 
bia, when professor in Furman University. But he saw 
that the Seminary could not go forward without his pre- 
sence and exertions to care for the finances. So, without a 
word about himself, postponing still his cherished wish, he 
cared for his suffering colleague. The latter's health had 
been sorely strained in the years following the war, by 
teaching all the week and then preaching every Sunday, 
till in 1868 the Board had requested him *Ho dissolve his 
pastoral relations, in view of the state of his health." This 
request was designed, and employed, to satisfy esteemed 
friends in the churches served^ that a resignation was neces- 
sary. Now that Professor Toy was present, and could help 
carry the burdens of instruction, and the finances were 
more hopeful, Boyce proposed the journey mentioned; and 
thus prolonged a life which otherwise could not have lasted 
many years, or could have lasted only with frail health 
and little power for work. He overcame by cordial assur- 
ances the natural reluctance to impose such expense upon 
the Seminary, and exerted himself in various ways to 
remove every sting from the journey and add to it every 
element of enjoyment and profit. He also taught the New 
Testament English class during the professor's absence, 
while Professor Toy took the Greek. 

Dr. Boyce was elected President of an important Baptist 
Educational Convention at Marion, Ala., in 1870, and of 
another at Richmond, Va., in 1871. In November of that 
year he was elected President of the South Carolina Bap- 
tist State Convention, and would no doubt have been often 
re-elected, but for his removal to Kentucky. The degree 
of LL.D. was conferred on him in 1872 by Union Uni- 
versity, Murfreesboro, Tenn. 



214 MEMOIR OF JAMES F. BOYCE. 

In the summer of 1871 Dr. Basil Manly, Jr., accepted 
an invitation to become President of Greorgetown College, 
Kentucky. One inducement was the opportunity it would 
give for educating his growing sons under his own eye, 
and partly by his own instruction, as his honored father 
had educated him. Another reason was that, somewhat to 
the surprise of his colleagues, he took no fancy to teaching 
Homiletics. We all thought him eminently adapted to 
the interesting and helpful correction of written sermons 
and other exercises; but he disliked the drudgery of the 
task, and the dislike grew upon him. There was also a 
better salary at Georgetown, which, with his large and 
growing family, was a thing proper to be regarded. And 
he thought the Seminary could do without him now, as 
there were four other professors. His colleagues vehe- 
mently opposed his leaving, feeling assured that the loss 
of so gifted an instructor, with a personal influence so 
winning and wholesome, would be irreparable. 

Dr. Boyce's published writings up to this time were not 
extensive. His "Three Changes in Theological Institu- 
tions, '' and his published sermon at the dedication of the 
church in Columbia, have been heretofore mentioned, as 
also his speeches and articles about the financial question 
he brought before the South Carolina Legislature. At 
the funeral of the venerated Dr. Basil Manly, Sr., which 
occurred at Greenville, Dec. 22, 1868, the Funeral Discourse 
was given by Dr. Boyce, and was afterwards published 
under the title, "Life and Death the Christian's Portion.'* 
Half of the discourse gives a singularly strong and helpful 
discussion of the two great thoughts that Life belongs to 
the Christian, and Death belongs to the Christian, from the 
text, 1 Cor. iii. 21, 22: "For all things are yours; whether 
Paul, or ApoUos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or 
things present, or things to come ; all are yours. " The other 
half gives a very interesting outline of Dr. Manly's life, a 
portion of which we have heretofore quoted, as contain- 



AT GBEENVILLB AFTER THE WAR. 216 

ing Boyce's earlj recollections of the beloved pastor in 
Charleston.* We cannot refrain from here further extract- 
ing the very striking and suggestive comparison of Dr. 
Manly with two other celebrated educators ; — 

*' He now entered upon an untried sphere, — the Presidency of 
the University of Alabama, located at Tuscaloosa in that State ; 
but he went only to gather fresh laurels, and to become addition- 
ally useful to his country and to the cause of Christ. It was 
indeed to secular education only that he was giving himself; 
but he knew how the influence obtained in thus educating the 
youth of a State could be made available to the cause of the 
Redeemer. And of all men there was none who could so use 
it more eflTectively. 

*' As a College President, Dr. Manly was undoubtedly 'one of 
the most successful. In this respect he will bear full comparison 
with his beloved friend, the lamented Wayland. Diflfering in 
many particulars, both intellectually and physically, located under 
different influences, entirely unhke in the character of their pulpit 
efforts, they were remarkably similar in their administrative 
capacity, and in the impress they left upon the educational 
interests in their respective sections. They were both in the 
fullest sense the presidents, the controlling spirits, of their respec- 
tive universities. The students, the faculty, the very Board of 
Trustees, looked up to them as to the heads, by which all was to 
be governed. Neither of them could have brooked any other posi- 
tion. The responsibility of their office was felt, and in bearing 
its responsibility they felt that they must exercise its authority. 

" In the impress made upon their respective students, however, 
there were contrasts, which marked the differences of the men. 
Dr. Wayland stamped his mind more upon his students; Dr. 
Manly, his heart. The influence of the latter was more over 
the spiritual, that of the former more over the intellectual, nature. 
Yet we are not here to find evidence of superior intellect in the 
one, any more than of superior spiritual life in the other. The 
truth is, to compare them in either respect is difficult. In some 
intellectual points, Dr. Wayland was the superior of Dr. Manly ; 
but in others, decidedly the inferior. The judgment of Dr. 
Manly was far better, much more accurate, much more certain 



216 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

to be correct. This was tine even npon subjects wbich Dr. 
Waylaad had more thoroaghly studied. Especially was it true 
upoD the intricate questions of moral and intellectual philosophy. 
Id Dr. Manly there was much less tendency to push theories to 
extremes, or to overlook the modifications in a theory, suggested 
by other facts and theories. Dr. Wayland*s vision was telescopic, 
reaching a long distance, and bringing objects near which to 
other men were distant; but when thus near, he could still view 
them only in the isolation in which a telescopic object is pre- 
sented, and his observations were left unmodified by the informa- 
tion given by other objects or through the senses. Dr. Manly 
saw not so piercingly ; but in seeing, he looked not at the object 
alone, but all its surroundings, and received the instruction 
given by his other powers, equally exercised for the attainment 
of knowledge. The truth is, that in that very analytical power 
by which Dr. Wayland would disintegrate a subject and isolate 
its parts, — a power, I believe, more remarkable in him than in 
any man America has ever produced, — in that very power, which 
thus constituted the strength of Dr. Wayland, and the source of 
his reputation, lurked a weakness which led him to conclusions 
cx)ntaining erroneous elements which men of less acute analysis, 
but of better judgment, could better perceive. It is on this 
account that, while indicating my conviction of the similarity 
between them as Presidents of Colleges, I yet recognize such 
great differences that it seems unfit to compare them intellectually 
or spiritually with each other. Those with whom they came in 
contact were often led to overlook the deep spiritual nature of 
Dr. Wayland, while recognizing his powers of intellect, and to 
fail to perceive the great mental powers of Dr. Manly while 
under the spell of his deeply spiritual and emotional nature. 
Under the powerful frame and massive intellectuality and com- 
manding, oftentimes stem, aspect of Wayland, there was the 
most childlike spirit that I ever knew in man, the most sym- 
pathizing heart, the most fatherly affection. Under the gentle 
and quiet and unobtrusive nature of Manly there was a mind of 
wonderful powers, of accurate and acute thought, capable of the 
exactest statement, attended by a logical enforcement that carried 
conviction at once to his hearers ; yet, withal, this was so gently 
done that the effect alone was apt to be felt, — the efficient 
causes were usually overlooked. 



AT GREENVILLE AFTER THE WAR. 217 

"In these respects he very strongly resembled the late Dr. 
Archibald Alexander, of Princeton. This will at once be ad- 
mitted by all who knew them both. Their bodily forms were 
not unlike, their habits of life very similar. Their mode of inter- 
coarse with others was marked by the same gentleness and kind- 
ness. Their methods of preaching were quite similar. The 
reputation in this respect of each had been achieved in early 
manhood, and that of the one was remarkably like that of the 
other. Each of them was more loved than feared, though both 
were deeply reverenced. The judgment of each was submitted 
to as to an oracle. But similar as they were in these and many 
other respects, it was not until their mental characteristics had 
been compared — their ways of thinking, the simplicity and 
accuracy of their statements, and the just views to which their 
correct judgment commonly led — that there was seen that remark- 
able resemblance which must have struck every observer well 
acquainted with them both.'' 

In the ^'Baptist Quarterly" for October, 1870, Dr. 
Boy 08 published an elaborate and quite valuable article 
on <*The Suffering Christ,'' the substance of which was 
afterwards given in his *^ Abstract of Theology." 



218 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

SERIES OF EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMIKART. 

DURING the first years after the war, the idea neces- 
sarily occurred to various persons that it would he 
hetter to remove the Seminary to some other State. The 
State feeling has always heen so strong at the South that 
no general institution could expect to obtain adequate 
endowment unless a large portion came from the State in 
which it was located. Accordingly, at the original estab- 
lishment of the Seminary, as we have seen, the South 
Carolina Baptists agreed to give one half of the then pro- 
posed endowment. This $100,000 had been fully sub- 
scribed when the Seminary went into operation. But much 
of it was paid in Confederate money, and invested in Con- 
federate bonds or other securities that perished with the 
war. The Theological department of Furman University 
was to turn over nearly $30,000 of the amount. The larger 
part of this was paid in Confederate money, and the noble 
University was, after the war, struggling for its existence, 
and quite unable to pay over the remainder. The private 
bonds of planters and others which remained unpaid were 
for the most part worthless. And when we looked to the 
future, it was simply out of the question to hope that 
South Carolina could furnish half of the larger endowment 
that would now be necessary, through the greatly increased 
cost of living, and the necessity of having additional pro- 
fessors. The wealthy Baptists of South Carolina had been 
nearly all planters, who were now almost uniformly im- 
poverished. The generous and noble men and women of 
the State contributed "to their power, yea, and beyond 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 219 

their power," for the annual support of the Seminary; but 
large endowments have to come chiefly from wealthy people, 
and of these there were then practically none. (Of course 
the situation has considerably improved since that time.) 
Moreover, Eurman University must soon have endowment, 
or perish; and any general effort to obtain South Carolina 
endowment for the Seminary would be damaging, if not 
fatal, to the University. 

Yet during the first years the idea of removal was never 
mentioned without prompt rejection. No one concerned 
wished to leave South Carolina or Greenville, which, both 
as to climate and community, had proven itself a delight- 
ful place of residence, even beyond the opening promise. 
And the people of South Carolina in general, though often 
curiously misunderstood at a distance, could never be 
thoroughly known by any person of elevated principles 
and tastes without being held in high admiration and 
esteem. So we struggled on, hoping that perhaps sufficient 
endowment might come from other States, though we 
knew not how. Dr. Boyce, though a large-hearted man, 
deeply interested in the whole South and the whole coun- 
try, was yet warmly attached to his native State and to 
the many friends of his early years, and surpassingly 
reluctant to take away from Carolina the institution to 
which he had devoted his life. 

The first known attempt to effect a removal of the Sem- 
inary came in April, 1869, four years after the war. The 
Trustees of Union University, at Murfreesboro, Tenn., 
invited a removal of the Seminary to that place, and prof- 
fered $50,000 towards its establishment there. The Trus- 
tees of the Seminary, at Macon,in May, respectfully declined 
the invitation. They said that funds contributed in South 
Carolina might be jeoparded by any removal, in conse- 
quence of the original agreement that in case of removal 
from the State all such funds should revert to Furman 
University. They state also that *' larger sums have been 



220 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

offered for the location of the Seminary in other places." 
They explain that the only serious difficulty as to continu- 
ing the Seminary at Greenville was the comparative diffi- 
culty of access, as it could be reached only by a single 
railroad from Columbia; and that this difficulty was about 
to be removed, as a railway was in construction which 
would connect Greenville directly with Atlanta on one' 
side, and on the other with Central North Carolina and 
Virginia. Dr. Jeter, President of the Board, was requested 
to publish an article in the ''Religious Herald,'' setting 
forth reasons for not removing the Seminary. The report 
thus adopted by the Board of Trustees is in Dr. Boyce's 
handwriting, and the fact is mentioned to show that he 
was zealous to prevent removal. 

Next year. May, 1870, when the Trustees met in connec- 
tion with the Southern Baptist Convention at Louisville, a 
committee was appointed, with A. M. Poindexter as chair- 
man, to devise some plan for raising a permanent endow- 
ment, and recommended that agents be appointed to 
attempt raising from $150,000 to $200,000, including $50 
each from a thousand ladies. The existence of several 
notable Baptist ladies in Louisville, able and accustomed 
to give generously, must have suggested this last rather 
fanciful proposition. No definite action was taken, but 
all concerned were evidently anxious to maintain the 
institution at Greenville if possible. 

In February, 1871, Dr. Boyce wrote to H. A. Tupper 
that he was sending out another circular, adding, '* I mtist 
have this money." In the circular he appeals to pastors 
to take up a special collection, and says : *' I am filled with 
anxiety that the Seminary should obtain immediate relief. 
... As to the final success of the Seminary, I have no 
fears; but I am anxious to see it carried through these 
years of trial and poverty at the South without being too 
much crippled.'' He was perhaps more depressed and 
anxious because about that time he began to have occa- 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 221 

sioual attacks of rheumatic gout, inherited from his father, 
compelling him to support his heavy frame on crutches. 

In April of this year some friends in Kentucky requested 
Dr. Boyce to engage in a public debate at Lexington against 
a Campbellite. He wrote to Rev. George Hunt: ''What 
could all of you mean? Why, there are twenty men in Ken- 
tucky who could outstrip me in such work as you propose. 
You yourself would do tenfold better. We folks here 
[in South Carolina] are too little troubled with Campbel- 
lism to be as familiar with it as a debater should be. And 
then I am slow of speech. No, no, I must beg off. Ken- 
tucky Baptists must not send to South Carolina to get a 
champion, and then find him whipped." 

Some time in 1871 or the early part of 1872 influential 
Trustees of Brown University asked Dr. Boyce's permission 
to nominate him for President of the University. The 
idea must have been very attractive to him, and he would 
have filled the position with distinguished ability. But 
he did not feel at liberty to leave the South and the 
Seminary. 

In May, 1871, the Board met again with the Convention 
at St. Louis. Notice was received of action taken the 
previous summer by the Trustees of Furman University, 
and by the State Convention of the Baptist denomination 
in South Carolina, proposing on their part to release the 
Seminary from all claims that contributions to it shall 
revert to Furman University in case of the Seminary's 
removal from the State, on condition that the Seminary 
upon its part will release Furman University and the State 
Convention from all claims for amounts due on account of 
the Theological department, etc. This was accompanied by 
a note from President James C. Furman that the Trustees 
of Furman University would deplore the removal of the 
Seminary to another site, and only desired to relieve the 
University from liabilities. The Trustees of the Seminary 
acceded to the proposed agreement, and further resolved 



222 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

that the Seminary shall be removed, if thereby '* endow- 
ment can be obtained of sufficient amount to secure the 
permanency of the institution." The Executive Commit- 
tee was directed to make public this willingness to remove, 
and invite proposals; but they must state that the Board 
will not be governed solely by the amount pledged from 
one or another locality. 

In March, 1872, Dr. Boyce personally visited Chatta- 
nooga and Memphis, inquiring as to the possibility of 
removal to one of those places. At Chattanooga his 
father's estate, still in his hands as executor, had large 
and promising investments. He himself confidently be- 
lieved that sooner or later Chattanooga would become a 
great city, as now seems increasingly probable. It was 
also quite central for the Southern States. He would 
have been personally much gratified to see the Seminary 
removed to that place, and wrote to persuade his father's 
heirs that it would be wise for the estate to subscribe 
handsomely towards the endowment, in case of removal, 
since he could then give constant personal attention to the 
development of their property. Yet he was not the man 
to be affected by personal interest, if something better 
could be done elsewhere for the general good. He had 
suffered a very heavy loss early in 1871 b}'^ the failure of a 
business house in Charleston in which he was a partner, 
but he went straight on with his Seminary work. 

In 1872 the Trustees met with the Southern Baptist 
Convention at Raleigh, N. C. It appeared that proposi- 
tions for removal had been made by friends of the Seminary 
in various cities. The eloquent I>r. T. G. Jones spoke 
strongly for Nashville. President N. K. Davis brought a 
carefully elaborated and very generous proposition for re- 
moval to Russellville, Ky., and incorporation with Bethel 
College, of that place, into **The Southern Baptist Uni- 
versity." Informal but earnest propositions were brought 
for removal to Chattanooga, to Memphis, to Atlanta, to 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 223 

Louisville. The Board resolved that it was expedient to 
remove, but that it was proper to avoid all complications 
with existing or proposed institutions of learning, and 
that this would restrict them (amon^ the places to which 
the Seminary had been invited) to Louisville, Nashville, 
Chattanooga, or Atlanta. They further resolved that at 
least three hundred thousand dollars ought to be secured 
in the city and State where the Seminary should be placed, 
with the expectation that two hundred thousand more 
would be raised elsewhere. They appointed a committee 
of seven to visit proposed places, examine proposed sites, 
etc., and inquire into the amount and validity of the 
subscriptions. Whenever these matters should be satis- 
factorily arranged by the Committee of Visitation, and the 
necessary legal measures should have been adopted, the 
Executive Committee was authorized to effect a removal. 
This important removal committee consisted of J. B. Jeter, 
T. H. Pritchard, S. L. Helm, T. P. Smith, S. Henderson, 
M. Hillsman, Joseph E. Brown; and Dr. Boyce was re- 
quested by the Board to accompany the committee in 
visiting various cities. 

Nearly all of this committee, with Dr. Boyce, shortly 
after visited the several cities suggested, and reached the 
conclusion that it was best to remove to Louisville, so 
soon as the requisite amount for endowment should be 
subscribed in the city and the State. Louisville was 
much the largest of the cities proposed, and while by no 
means geographically central to the Southern States, it 
was already evident that railroads would ultimately make 
it easily accessible from all parts of the South. There 
were several strong Baptist churches in the city, and 
wealthy Baptist members; and it was believed that when 
there should be opportunity for full explanation of what 
the Seminary could do, not only for the cause at large, 
but for the city of its location in particular, these intelli- 
gent and generous Baptists would quite generally become 



224 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

its friends, as some of them were from the beginning. It 
was supposed that not more than a year or two would be 
required to obtain the proposed subscription in Louisville 
and Kentucky, no one foreseeing the great financial crisis 
of the following year. 

Meantime important changes had to be made in the 
faculty. When Professor Manly left, in 1871, it was too 
late for any appointment to be made by the Board. Pro- 
fessor Toy could take Biblical Introduction. Dr. Boyce 
readily resumed Polemics, which he had previously taught. 
He urged Dr. Williams to take the School of Jlomiletics, 
promising that if it should prove agreeable to him, a new 
professor should be found the next year for Church History, 
— a subject which Williams had never particularly liked, 
though he did all his work faithfully and ably. Dr. Boyce 
was persuaded, and the other professors, that Xhr. Williams 
would teach Homiletics with signal ability, as he was a 
very able preacher, whose sermons were always carefully 
constructed, his style a model of terseness and lucidity, 
and his delivery forcible, and often intensely earnest. Dr. 
Williams protested — and the matter is recorded simply 
because of a valuable distinction — that whatever he might 
be able to do as a preacher, he was wholly unsuited for 
teaching other men how to preach. He said: *<If a man 
brings me a bad sermon, I can sit down and write him a 
better one; but I can't tell him how to make his sermon 
better. I can't make my mind work in other men's lines." 
He said he was quite willing to do anything he could do, 
but would utterly refuse to attempt what he knew he could 
not do. Boyce urged his plan with growing vehemence, 
until Williams rejected it with decided heat; "and the 
contention was sharp between them." This w6s the only 
time in all the Seminary's history that there ever arose 
the slightest unpleasantness between professors; and 
this was^ gone next day. Dr. Boyce quietly said that he 
would take the School of Homiletics himself. The pro- 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 225 

lessor who had been relieved of it two years before was 
ready to undertake the subject again, but Boyce earnestly 
objected. He said he had good health, and although he 
had neither taste nor training for correcting exercises, he 
would do his best, and would not allow one whose health 
was still uncertain to resume the burden. So Dr. Boyce 
himself taught Homiletics that session, as he had tauglit 
New Testament the previous session. 

The next year, May, 1872, Eev. William Heth \\aiitsitt 
was elected Professor of Biblical Introduction and Polemic 
Theology, and Assistant-Professor of New Testament Greek, 
this aid rendering it possible for Professor Broadus to 
resume the School of Homiletics. Professor Whitsitt was 
a native of Tennessee, and a graduate of Union University. 
He served in the army all through the war, first as a 
private, but presently as chaplain, in Forrest's celebrated 
cavalry command. After the war he spent a year at the 
University of Virginia, and from 1867 two years in our 
Seminary, after which he devoted more than two years 
(1869-1871) to study in Leipsic and Berlin. After a 
pastorate of some months in Albany, Ga., he accepted the 
post of Professor in the Seminary. His inaugural address, 
Sept. 2, 1872, discussed the "Position of the Baptists in the 
History of American Culture. " This address was published 
in the "Baptist Quarterly" and in pamphlet form, and a 
second edition of it in 1874. He states with great force the 
ideas and practices upon which Baptists have laid special 
emphasis, thereby contributing no little to whatever is beat 
in American thought and life. He glories in the fact 
"that although the Baptists are one of the foremost 
denominations in the United States, their direct and 
palpable influence upon our political destinies — in con- 
trolling public elections, exciting agitation, or manipulat- 
ing the legislative, judicial, or executive authorities -r- is 
quite inappreciable and insignificant. There is nothing 
that furnishes to our own people, and to all the friends of 

15 



226 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

religion, a juster ground of pride and thankfulness." His 
concluding exhortation is very wholesome : — 

" The people with whom your lot is cast, my hrethren, have 
emancipated the intellect, and have opened the Bible to all. 
You will be called to move among men of active, independent 
minds. Your principal claim to their respect, and, as a conse- 
quence, your best prospects for usefulness, will depend upon your 
intellectual and moral endowments and culture. They recognize 
the validity of no sacramental theories : you will therefure be 
surrounded by no halo of priestly sanctity. Hence it is impera- 
tively necessary that you should employ diligence in arming 
yourself thoroughly for the duties before you. Remember, too, 
that the pulpits of a people professing these levelling, humani- 
tarian principles, these earnest Gospel truths, are no fit theatre for 
over-cultivated, weak-thoughted, intellectual exquisites, doling 
out diluted and harmless treatises on philosophy or SBSthetics. 
Men of robust spirit are in demand, who, like our blessed Master, 
keep in sympathy with the common people, and are gladly heard 
by them ; who in connection with apostolic ruggedness and vigor 
cultivate also apostolic gentleness and simplicity.^ 

That same year, 1872, Dr. Boyce made a remarkable 
sacrifice for the benefit of the Seminary. A good deal of 
objection had been made in some quarters to certain teach- 
ings of Dr. Williams in the class of Church Government, 
particularly to his teaching that persons who have been 
immersed by Pedobaptists or Campbellites may be properly 
received into a Baptist church without being baptized by 
a Baptist minister. Some newspaper articles had severely 
assailed Dr. Williams for those views, and the Seminary 
on that account. Dr. Boyce greatly desired that the 
Seminary should attract to its privileges all sorts of Bap- 
tists, from every part of the Southern country, and should 
not be looked upon as representing one party among us in 
opposition to some other party. He knew that his own 
views of Church Government would be less objectionable 
than those of Dr. Williams in the quarters indicated. He 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 227 

also knew that Williams would always have preferred to 
teach Systematic Theology rather than Church History, as 
the former greatly better suited his mental constitution 
and general culture. It would be a great sacrifice for 
Boyce to cease teaching Theology, in which he had always 
delighted, and had now enjoyed a dozen years of experience, 
and to turn his attention to Church History, — a subject 
so vast, and demanding boundless reading. And warnings 
had begun that his health was no longer perfect. But he 
thought the matter over, and decided to offer Williams an 
exchange of subjects, with the understanding that while 
Boyce should have to be absent on agency work in gather- 
ing the endowment and effecting the proposed removal, 
Williams would also continue to teach his former subject. 
This seemed a very wise arrangement to make Dr. Boyce 
foot-loose for the present, and have the work in both de- 
partments ably 'done. Dr. Williams entered with great 
delight upon his favorite subject, to which he had given 
his chief attention when professor in the Theological De- 
partment of Mercer University. He had extraordinary 
power of terse, comprehensive, and clear statement of truth. 
After two or three years, of experience, his lectures in 
Systematic Theology must have been of an excellence 
rarely equalled, for their exact definitions, their closely 
concatenated arguments, and their profound spiritual sym- 
pathy; they were highly valued by the students. But 
the unanticipated delay which kept Dr. Boyce away for 
several vears after, caused Dr. Williams to wear himself 
out, as we shall sadly see, under the burden of two great 
departments of teaching. None the less was Dr. Boyce 
making at the time a great personal sacrifice, in relin- 
quishing the subject which he greatly preferred and in 
which he had already a rich experience, and promising 
to turn, when he could resume teaching, to entirely new 
work, all for the Seminary's sake. Only a teacher, and 
one who has reached the age of forty-five, as Dr. Boyce 



1 



228 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

had now done, can fully understand what a sacrifice was 
here made. 

At this meeting of the Southern Baptist Convention, 
May, 1872, Dr. Boyce was elected President of that body. 
He was re-elected annually till 1879, and again in 1888. 
His predecessor. Dr. P. H. Mell, of Georgia, was univer- 
sally considered an unrivalled presiding officer. People 
soon began to say that Dr. Boyce presided better than any 
one they had ever seen, except Dr. Mell, and some went 
further still. To preside well over a big Baptist Conven- 
tion is no ordinary task; the Speaker in the National 
House of Representatives, or the president of a National 
Nominating Convention, has scarcely greater difficulties 
to overcome. Every Baptist of them all feels himself per- 
fectly free, and wishes to be personally uncontrolled, and 
yet all desire that the president shall maintain perfect 
order. In appointing committees, due regard must be 
paid to the different sides of a question, and to the States 
from which men come. In deciding points of order, the 
president must be prompt and positive. Dr. Mell used to 
say that it is better for a presiding officer to err sometimes 
than ever to hesitate. Dr. Kerfoot has quaintly put this 
by reversing a celebrated phrase : '* It is better to be presi- 
dent than to be right." Dr. Boyce seemed never wanting 
in mastery of the whole situation, nor in perfect courtesy 
and fairness to all, while it would be hard to find his equal 
in the glowing cordiality and vivid sympathy with which 
every speaker was recognized. It must have often caused 
the man to feel more hopeful of making a good speech.^ 
Some years later, when Dr. Boyce began to teach Church 

1 Dr. Folk, of the "Baptist Reflector," stated, after Boyce*s death, 
that during the Convention at Nashville in 1878 a distinguished gentle- 
man, already familiar with deliberative bodies, and afterwards a United 
States Senator, was very much struck with the ability of Dr. Boyce as 
a presiding officer, and expressed his admiration openly, though not a 
Baptist, nor personally acquainted. 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 229 

Government and Pastoral Duties, he accepted the sugges- 
tion that it was desirable to give regular lessons in Parlia- 
mentary proceedings, as time is often lost in churches, 
associations and conventions from lack of thorough ac- 
quaintance with this matter. He introduced Dr. MelPs 
'* Parliamentary Practice '' as a text-book, and made the 
course of instruction quite a feature of the Seminary's 
work, which is kept up with marked ability by his succes- 
sor, Dr. Kerfoot. 

In the latter part of May, 1872, Dr. Boyce had a notable 
experience in attending a meeting of the American Bap- 
tist Educational Commission at Philadelphia. In the 
course of an earnest discussion as to the propriety of con- 
tinuing the meetings of the convention of educators thus 
designated, a vigorous and distinguished brother from New 
York made some sort of personal issue against Dr. Boyce, 
the precise nature of which is not remembered. In reply, 
Boyce stated his position, and then said he appealed to the 
audience as to whether he had not stated it fairly. The 
response was in overwhelming applause, amounting to 
quite a discomfiture for the assailant. At a public break- 
fast given the next morning at Fairmount by Philadelphia 
brethren. Dr. Boyce was asked to speak, and in the course 
of his remarks came round to the subject of Christian 
friendship and brotherly regard. He presently said that 
sometimes in the heat of discussion one may seem to bear 
hard on a brother, but that a Christian man will be sure to 
regret this, and wish to restore cordial relations. Then, 
advancing towards the brother encountered the day before, 
and dropping the crutches which through an attack of gout 
he was carrying, Boyce threw his arms around him, with 
a look full of warm-hearted sincerity, and altogether in a 
manner that called forth the greatest applause, and made 
a lasting impression. 

When it had been decided that summer, as above nar- 
rated, that the Seminary would be removed to Louisville 



230 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

80 soon as the necessary subscription for endowment should 
be secured in the city and State, Dr. Boyce concluded to 
take up his own abode in Louisville and devote himself to 
that task. In October, 1872, he wrote to his sister, Mrs. 
Burckmyer, that he and his family had just reached 
Louisville, and adds: *' There is a great deal of opposi- 
tion, from lack of acquaintance with the matter; but this 
will all be overcome as I am able to set forth the merits 
of the case." A month later, he writes to Dr. Heman 
Lincoln: "I have too hard a work here to be sanguine of 
success. I have had some large subscriptions, — one of 
twenty thousand dollars ; but all this will not suffice un- 
less many others help." After spending nearly twelve 
months at the Louisville Hotel, Dr. Boyce lived several 
years at 117 West Broadway, afterwards at 742 Fourth 
Avenue, and finally at 102 West Chesnut. 

It was of course a deeply painful thing to leave his 
native State. His feelings are expressed in a letter of 
October 22 to Rev. J. O. B. Dargan, D. D., of Darlington, 
S. C, father of the present professor in the Seminary. 

"Your very kind letter of October 17 has just been received. 
I thank you for its expressions of fraternal love, which are 
ardently reciprocated. I wish I could be at the convention at 
Darlington, but duty forbids me. I must work hard here to 
accomplish my task. One of my colleagues has promised to 
attend the convention and represent the Seminary. In coming 
here I am not separated from my native State. I come here to do 
her work, as well as that of the others. I could not be otherwise 
than still fond of her, and still anxious for all her interests. My 
heart will go back constantly, especially to the dear brethren 
with whom I have labored and toiled and sacrificed and con- 
sulted. Noble band of brothers, when shall I find their like? 
I say nothing in disparagement of the brethren here when X say 
that my heart can find no such sympathy or resting-place as I 
have found in my dear Carolina. It has been no ordinary strug- 
gle to leave the State and my mountain home, especially when I 
leave her in so sorrowful a plight. No temptation heretofore, in 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 231 

several brilliant offers I have had, has sufficed. But the Seminary 
is my chUd. I prize it perhaps too highly ; yet have 1 ever 
striven to hold it in due proportion to other causes of the king- 
dom of Christ. For it I am now undergoing more than I can 
tell, and as yet my future is uncertain. My dear brother, pray 
for me, and for the Seminary's success, that it may prove a 
blessing, and for the poor sinner whom God permits, though so 
unworthy, to labor with him. God bless you and all yours." 

On Jan. 4, 1873, he wrote from Louisville to a gifted 
friend in South Carolina, Hon. William Henry Trescot, 
who has long held important positions in the State De- 
partment at Washington and in the public service abroad, 
and who had frequently been Boyce's guest at Greenville. 
The letter abounds in expressions of cordial regard for 
him and other friends in South Carolina. Mr. Trescot 
was at the time seeking some office to which the Legis- 
lature must elect, and Boyce refers to the matter in terms 
that are suggestive : — 

" If I can further your election iu any way, write. But as I 
have no former servant in the Legislature, no influence with the 
whites, and feel in conscience bound not to bribe, even if I had 
the money, you must point out the way of successful operation." 

On the same day he wrote a letter to a venerable and hon- 
ored lady who had long been his near neighbor and friend 
in Greenville. Mrs. Butler was the sister of Commodore 
Oliver Hazard Perry; her husband, Dr. Butler, deceased 
some years before, was the brother of Senator A. P. Butler, 
upon whose death Dr. Boyce preached a sermon, as hereto- 
fore mentioned ; her son is General M. C. Butler, of Confed- 
erate cavalry fame, and who has long been United States 
Senator from South Carolina. She was a notable figure 
in Greenville society, held in great respect by everybody, 
and, as the letter shows, in high esteem by those who 
knew her well. She had recently gone to visit her 
son the General at Columbia, and had written to the 



232 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Boyces, complaining that she had not heard from them. 
After referring to these circumstances, Dr. Boyce's letter 
proceeds ; — 

" Forget you ! — I never could do that ; how could I ? I have 
never had a better friend, nor any outside of my relatives who 
seemed to care as much for me as you, and I assure you I have 
appreciated it. For such small favoi-s as I have been able to 
show you, —after all, mere neighborly acts, — yon have seemed 
more grateful than I felt was due ; so much so as to le^d me 
often to feel ashamed that I could do and had done so little. Nor 
can I ever forget the great kindness you have always shown to 
my family. Yet, after all, let me tell you what, amid the excel- 
lences of a ^character which has been the wonder and admiration 
of your many friends, has always been to me your most beautiful 
trait. Not that maternal devotion which you have exemplified 
to all, but the depths of which in my private talks with you I 
have had the privilege to know as few but your children know it ; 
not that wonderful force of character which has carried you, with 
God's help, through so much tribulation and strugglings with the 
world, and which perhaps is the trait most appreciated by your 
friends in general, — but that self-sacrificing spirit which has 
never sent the poor away unaided, even from an empty larder 
and a stock of clothing really needed for yourself. I have seen 
this in so many ways displayed, putting the blush upon myself 
and all those around you, that I have learned to love you even 
more for what you are not to me than for what you are. 

"You will laugh, and say I am flattering you. Well, I might 
feel like flattering if I were not talking about serious things, and 
might claim my right as a man to do so with a woman. But i*^ 
is not so now. I am telling you, however, truths upon paper 
which I could not tell you to your face. I am not very demon- 
strative, although by no means cold or altogether lacking ; still, 
I hide much of my feeling of affection within myself. Why 
should I not, however, jsay these things to one who cannot be 
injured by them, and who will appreciate, I know, even the 
love which in her modesty she disclaims, and denies the truth- 
fulness of the character I have drawn ? 

"In your letter to my wife you say that you are seventy years 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 233 

old. Grod has truly blessed you with a long life : may he add to 
it still many other years ! Yet, after all, our living here is not the 
best. It is the life to come to which it is our privilege to look, 
and for which God helps us to long. I trust that he has put this 
spirit in your heart. In our weariness and distress, it is easy to 
say, * that I had wings like a dove ; then would I fly away and 
be at rest.^ But it is our privilege to feel the same even in our 
joys. If God's presence be sweet to us, and we enjoy the bless- 
ing of constant communion with him, then are our hearts 
gladdened with the hope of his appearing. Even amid our joys 
we can say, * Lord Jesus, come quickly.' God has deeply 
afflicted you, and I know your heart has been often uttering this 
prayer, — I trust not only in the hour of sadness, but in the quiet 
moment of contemplation. That God should be (mr God is a 
great and glorious truth. How fearful the description of the 
unbelieving, * having no hope, and without God in the world ' I 
How delightful is that twenty- third Psalm, read especially in con- 
nection with the passages in the New Testament where Christ 
speaks of himself as the Shepherd. How especially comforting in 
our depressions of spirit, and when we feel that God has deserted 
us or forsaken us, to look at David in the case as recorded in the 
23d and 24th chapters of I. Samuel, and then turn to the 142d 
Psalm, — which David calls Maschil, a mystery, —and read his 
experience. Especially look at the third verse, * When my spirit 
was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my path.' And 
then our heart.8 may say as he does at the close, * Bring my soul 
out of prison, that I may praise thy name.' 

" Have yon yet been able to say heartily, * Thy will be done,' 
in all your afflictions f I know that you have prayed this, and 
kept on uttering the prayer, and I have prayed God to help you 
to continue to do so, hard as it was to persevere in the darkness 
that surrounded you. And I have felt sure that if yon continued, 
your God would give strength, and enable you to feel that he is 
right in all things ; and not only right, but merciful and wise. 

^' How many evils have taken place in onr State, and especially 
in Greenville, since I left ! ... I do not know whether I should 
tell you that I hope to be in South Carolina some time about 
February 1st, and. may have a chance f>f seeing you. I shall do 
so if I can, even if I have to stop especially for that purpose." 



1 



234 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

After a brief visit to South Carolina, as indicated, he 
was hastily summoned to Washington, Ga., by the death 
of his wife's honored mother. [Returning to Louisville, his 
energies were again earnestly devoted to the sufficiently 
difficult task before him. Some of the leading Baptists of 
Louisville took hold at once of his enterprise, giving gen- 
erous subscriptions and all their moral influence. But 
several eminent and honored men decidedly opposed the 
movement, believing that it was not best for the Baptist 
cause in Louisville and Kentucky. Some said that while a 
university would be of great service to the city, in educat- 
ing its young men, a theological school would do no local 
service, as its students would almost all come from a dis- 
tance and return. Some contended that it was not best for 
the general usefulness of the Southern Seminary to place it 
on the border of the Southern country. But the main 
objection was from the idea that it would turn away 
denominational attention and support from the two Ken- 
tucky Baptist Colleges, — Georgetown College, and Bethel 
College at Russell ville. Each of these had a theological 
department, which would probably be practically aban- 
doned if a theological seminary were established in the 
State. Brethren who had never seen a Baptist college 
working without a theological department, supposed that 
to give up this theological instruction would be to turn 
away from the college pretty much all the students who 
were preparing for the ministry. That would greatly 
weaken the interest of the churches in the college, and 
would take away from the other students the moral in- 
fluence of those who were preparing for the ministry. 
With such views and expectations, they very naturally 
objected. Others, not entering so far into probable results, 
simply thought that to interest the denomination of the 
State in a new institution at Louisville would prevent 
their contributing to the colleges, both of which needed 
increased endowment. There were also in Louisville a few 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 235 

honored brethren who had their doubts about the propriety 
of putting young men through a theological course. They 
believed in sending them to college, but held that then, 
with their minds well trained, they could best learn the- 
ology from the Bible and. through talking with the old 
ministers while engaged in actual preaching. Such oppo- 
sition from a number of leading brethren, honored for 
their intelligence and liberality in other things, was of 
course sufficient to prevent a great many from contributing. 
It is comparatively easy to hinder giving; a mere pebble 
may stop a wheel that is going up hill. Even outside of 
Louisville, certain prominent friends of the two colleges, 
at their respective locations or elsewhere, wrote letters or 
made visits to Louisville, decidedly opposing the project. 
Some of these were men of high character and intelligence^ 
acting upon convictions which only a wider experience 
than they had enjoyed of such matters could correct. Dr. 
Boyce very soon began to perceive, as extracts from the 
letters above given show, that his task was hard. 

After some weeks, in consultation with friends, he got 
up a public meeting of citizens of Louisville, at the lec- 
ture hall of the Public Library, now the Polytechnic 
Society. It was pretty well attended. The president 
was the venerable Judge Bullock, a devout Episcopalian. 
One of the addresses was by Kev. E. P. Humphrey, D. D., 
an eminent and justly' beloved Presbyterian pastor, who 
had formerly been professor at Centre College, Danville, 
Ky. Dr. Humphrey spoke, with characteristic superiority 
to all denominational narrowness, in favor of bringing to 
Louisville an institution that would greatly promote the 
cause of religion in the city ; and he ended by giving a 
generous contribution himself. In regard to this oc- 
casion Mr. Theodore Harris, the celebrated Louisville 
banker, who became a very intimate friend of Dr. Boyce, 
and who is a man of fine literary taste, as his own 
writings show, has said that Dr. Boyce's address struck 



236 MEMOIR OF JAMES F. BOYCE. 

X 

him very much, not only by its practical wisdom and 
strength, but by the elevation and finish of the style, — 
quite superior to his sermons. Mr. Harris thought the 
address must have been very careful lyjcomposed and com- 
mitted to memory, and was surprised to learn some time 
afterwards that it was entirely unwritten. The fact is, 
that only in such a situation was Dr. Boyce at his best. 
When his magnificent practical faculties were thoroughly 
aroused by some great undertaking, and his soul was 
kindled with strong desire to carry his point, and the 
growing sympathy of the audience wrought him up more 
and more^ then the imaginative and sesthetical side of his 
nature came into full play. This was the man that so much 
delighted in pictures and in poetry. Now the practical 
side of him and the sesthetical side of him were lifted into 
vivid and harmonious action. But in writing most of his 
sermons, though interested in the train of thought, and 
anxious to do good, there was no such exaltation of im- 
agination, passion, and taste. Only when treating a 
theme of uncommon practical importance, and at the same 
time congenial to his deepest feelings, does one of his 
written sermons rise to this level. If he could have 
worked on to middle age ,as exclusively a pastor, his 
powers as a preacher would have been much more 
frequently exercised in such symmetrical and exalted 
action. 

Dr. Peter remembers a like remarkable exhibition of 
power at a meeting in Walnut Street Baptist Church, 
when President No'ah K. Davis, of Bethel College, spoke 
with his signal ability against the removal of the Semi- 
nary to Louisville. Dr. Boyce's reply is said to have 
been able and impressive in the extreme. 

It may be well to mention a matter incidentally con- 
nected with the distinguished brother just referred to, 
which ought to be a warning to men who can see so much 
deeper into a millstone than there is a hole in it. The 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 237 

following June, President Davis was elected Professor of 
Moral Philosophy in the University of Virginia, where, as 
teacher and author, he has ever since been amply fulfilling 
the high hopes of his friends. Several Kentucky Associa- 
tions of the summer were visited by a brother from another 
State, who meant no unkindness whatever, but thought he 
perceived a piece of superb management, and took interest 
in pointing it out. **Did you ever see," he would say, 
" such a manager as this man Boyce? He knew that the 
colleges would be in the way of his scheme ; and, do you 
observe, he sent one of his colleagues beforehand to be Pres- 
ident of Georgetown College, and now he has worked to 
get the President of Bethel College moved away to another 
State. Is n't that splendid?'' When Dr. Boyce heard of this 
commendation, he said quietly that all he had to do with 
Manly's going to Georgetown was to oppose it with all his 
might to the very last; and all he had to do with Professor 
Davis's going to Virginia was that he received a letter 
from a friend asking him to recommend Professor Davis, 
and he was of course glad to recommend a very able man 
for a very desirable position, if he cared to have it. Thus 
the splendid piece of management was wholly imaginary ; 
as the Germans say, it was '* grasped out of pure air." 

In May, 1873, the Southern Baptist Convention met 
at Mobile, and with it, as usual, the Trustees of the 
Seminary; and there Dr. Boyce made what some of us 
regard as the most notable speech of his life. An esteemed 
brother from North Carolina, in attending the Commence- 
ment of the Seminary at Greenville just before, had 
become fully persuaded that it was quite improper to 
remove the institution from Greenville. On the way to 
Mobile he communicated this view to delegates from the 
Carolinas and Georgia, and a strong feeling arose to that 
effect. Whenever any one of them sat down by a professor 
on the way to talk about the matter, his simple answer 
was, ** Wait till you hear Boyce; he knows all about it." 



238 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

The Trustees having requested the Convention to approve 
the removal on which they had decided, the Convention 
went into Committee of the Whole. Putting another 
brother, of course, into the chair, Dr. Boyce took the 
floor at a time he had not expected, and spoke a whole 
hour. He reviewed the history of the Seminary, the 
terrible losses by the war, the noble generosity of the 
brethren in South Carolina and elsewhere in gifts for cur- 
rent support; he then showed the necessity of permanent 
endowment, and the impossibility of obtaining this save 
in a State where the Baptists had much greater financial 
strength than was then true of the State he himself loved 
so well. But this statement, or any statement, must be 
unjust to an address full of fact and argument and passion- 
ate appeal. It was a lifetime concentrating itself upon one 
point; a great mind and a great heart surcharged with 
thought and feeling; a man of noble nature appealing to 
all that was noblest in his hearers; a Christian speaking 
in Christ's name to his brethren. Drs. J. C. Furman and 
J. 0. B. Dargan, of South Carolina, then spoke in a spirit 
worthy of themselves and of their State. When the 
matter came to a vote, the Convention gave a most ani- 
mated and cordial vote of approval ; and the resolute and 
consistent brother from North Carolina, with his solitary 
" Nay," helped the matter by showing that it was in no 
sense a vote nem, con. 

In the summer of that year there came a great financial 
crisis, — one of those penalties of inflation which every 
now and then prostrate the business affairs of the country, 
and bring to a standstill all large projects for the future. 
Of course men in Louisville could not then be expected 
to make any considerable engagements for the Seminary's 
endowment. Yet Boyce could not give up his work, or it 
would have been regarded in subsequent years as simply 
one of the projects that had perished with the crisis. It 
appears that as nothing could then be done in the city, he 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 239 

struck out into the country churches and associations, 
where the financial troubles would not be so promptly felt, 
and where time would be well spent in extending his 
personal acquaintance. This interruption of his plans 
must have been a great trial to all the strong elements 
of his character. Dr. M. Gary Peter, of Louisville, whose 
father. Dr. Arthur Peter, had pledged the first large con- 
tribution, remembers that during that first winter he was 
himself in poor health and laid aside from business, and 
that at his noble mother's suggestion he went about the 
city with Dr. Boyce, introducing him. He says few 
things in all his life have so much impressed him as 
the unconquerable fortitude, the patient gentleness and 
never-failing courtesy with which Dr. Boyce endured many 
successive failures, sometimes attended by unkind words. 
Such a winter of struggling effort, and then such a sum- 
mer of sad interruption, — these are the times that try 
men's souls I and here was a soul born to conquer. This 
was a proud man, who k^nly felt the personal humiliation 
of being refused like a beggar. But he steadfastly endured 
it all, because fully persuaded that he was working for the 
real good of mankind and for the glory of Christ the 
Lord, and hopeful, amid all delays and difficulties, that 
he would not prove to be working in vain. 

Late in the year he went to Richmond, Va., seeking a 
special contribution to pay notes due for salaries. Ten 
years later he wrote to Dr. A. E. Dickinson, volunteering 
a contribution for Kichmond College, out of gratitude 
for the cheerful and generous help which the Kichmond 
brethren and sisters had given him in that season of 
financial panic. 

In April, 1874, Boyce wrote to Joshua Levering, of Balti- 
more, who is now a leading Trustee of the Seminary, and 
Vice-President of the Board. Mr. Levering's lamented 
father, Eugene Levering, had left a generous bequest to 
the Seminary, which Boyce thought it would be better not 



240 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

to pay over immediately, lest it should be consumed in 
annual expenses, when it ought to be kept for endowment. 
He refers to an appeal he has recently made, now the third 
time, for five-year bonds for annual support. The move- 
ment to endow and remove the Seminary has been so 
delayed, and is likely to be so protracted, that he feels it 
necessary to provide for current support during several 
years to come. These bonds to give so much a year for five 
years had been sent by mail in a gratifying manner. " We 
have up to this time about $26,000, and are getting about 
$1,000 a day. I hope this will increase. I think it very 
doubtful if we shall secure $40,000 before the Convention 
meets, and if not, I fear we had better give up the sessions 
for a year or two, until we get our permanent endowment." 
The Southern Baptist Convention met a few weeks later, at 
Jefferson, Tex., and the amount of bonds received by mail 
or handed him by the delegates came up to $40,000, show- 
ing that the enterprise had a strong hold upon the brother- 
hood. Yet $30,000 more would be necessary, and was it 
possible to obtain this at the Convention ? The brethren 
from other States had been contributing again and again 
for nine years. The chief hope must be in Texas, where 
the denomination was beginning to grow conscious of 
strength; but the Seminary was very little known. At 
the request of the Trustees a suitable time was granted by 
the Convention, and Boyce explained the history and 
design of the institution, and its present hopes and needs. 
The noble brethren, though just rallying from the finan- 
cial collapse of the year before, gave him the pledges he 
asked for $30,000. 

This $14,000 a year would support the professors and 
necessary agents, if all paid. But experience had shown 
that deaths, failures in business, and other changes would 
prevent full payment, and a margin was needed to make 
the operation saf§. When the Convention adjourned, most 
of the brethren from other States went off upon excursions 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 241 

which the Texas friends had kindly provided. But Boyce 
and a colleague returned together in anxious consultation 
about the necessary margin of five-year bonds. We seemed 
to have exhausted every resource. What could be done ? 
To go on without additional bonds would be to accumulate 
debt, year after year. What could be done ? A week or 
two later, the colleague had to speak in Washington city 
at the Baptist Anniversaries, including a Jubilee of 
the American Baptist Publication Society. During the 
anniversaries he was approached by Dr. S. S. Cutting and 
Samuel Colgate, Esq., chief promoters of the American 
Baptist Educational Commission, who said they had seen 
something in the papers about an effort to secure current 
support for the Southern Seminary, and wanted to know 
how it stood. The result was that they begged half an 
hour from the American Baptist Home Mission Society 
one evening, and invited a five minutes' statement of the 
Seminary's condition and wants. Then the brethren began 
to make pledges of cash, or so much a year for five years, 
and presently Dr. Richard Fuller took the meeting in 
charge for a good quarter of an hour, in his large-hearted 
way; the great assembly grew more and more interested, 
the half hour was somewhat overrun by common consent, 
and the noble Northern brethren had pledged over $10,000. 
They paid it too, scarcely a dollar ever failing, — it is a 
way they have, to pay the pledges they make in public 
meetings. 

For that summer of 1874 Dr. Boyce arranged a tour of 
central Kentucky, accompanied by one of his colleagues, 
with appointments published in advance, and running 
through near forty days. Twice on Sunday, and every 
evening in the week but Saturday, there was a sermon, 
after which he made his plea for the Seminary, asked for 
contributions, then begged those who had promised them 
to remain after the dismission and sign his bonds. Begin- 
ning late on the summer evenings, and with all this to go 

16 



242 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

through, it was usually near midnight before we could 
retire, and we must take an early train in the morning for 
the next place. One of the party suffered much from the 
loss of sleep, and sometimes strove to make it up in the 
afternoons. But Boyce seemed never to need more than 
£ve or six hours of sleep, and was in fine health all the 
time. Every week, sometimes oftener than once a week, 
one or the other would begin to get low-spirited, through 
some case of poor success; but the moment either would 
show any despondency, the other began to encourage him, 
perhaps to laugh it off, and so the whole series of appoint- 
ments went through, with results that upon the whole 
were highly gratifying. It was observed throughout this 
journey, as often before and afterwards, that Dr. Boyce 
was habitually a small eater. His large figure, and the. 
fact that he had begun to have occasional attacks of gout, 
led many people to imagine that he ate very freely. But 
it was never so, at any time of his life. Even Kentucky 
hospitality did not tempt him beyond a decided moderation. 
This journey and subsequent events brought out a noble 
trait of character in a leading private member of one of 
the Kentucky churches. Nimrod Long, Esq., of Russell- 
ville, was a devoted friend and liberal supporter of Bethel 
College. He believed that to bring the Seminary to Louis- 
ville would damage the College ; and so from the beginning 
he frankly opposed the movement, even visiting Louisville 
to urge that his kindred and old friends should not con- 
tribute. When he saw the announcement that the series 
of appointments was to include Eussellville, he wrote at 
once a most cordial invitation to stay at his house. He 
said it was well understood that he could not support the 
movement, as a matter of conviction, but he wanted us to 
feel sure, and everybody else to see, that personally he was 
our friend; and so his invitation must not be denied. 
There was never a more cordial hospitality. He went to 
hear the sermon and the plea, looked on while the Presi- 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 243 

dent and some of the Professors of Bethel College con- 
tributed, and a good many others of the community, 
and took pains afterwards at home to explain to one of 
the visitors his position. His frank and brotherly way 
encouraged the other to assure him that he would find 
things work otherwise than he supposed, as had been found 
elsewhere in Baptist colleges having no theological de- 
partment; that in two years after the Seminary began in 
Louisville, Bethel College would have more men preparing 
for the ministry than ever before. '* Well," he said, ''if 
that happens I '11 believe it, and then I '11 change my 
mind." Only one year after the Seminary came to Louis- 
ville, the S. B. Convention met in Nashville ; and as Dr. 
Boyce was presiding, he requested a friend to ask special 
contributions for current support of the Seminary. The 
first man that spoke was Nimrod Long, saying, ''I'll 
give you five hundred dollars." The answer was, "I 
thank you, many times over. I know exactly what that 
means." "Yes," he responded cheerily, "and that's not 
all. I 'm going to help your endowment before long." 
Be sure he kept his word. He even came to Louisville to 
visit old friends, when, some time afterwards, the Seminary 
was again in a crisis about the endowment, urging that 
it must be saved. There was a man for you, — a man 
of strong convictions, self-relying force of character, who 
could push great enterprises and never give way; yet a 
man entirely free from mere obstinate persistence in a posi- 
tion once assumed, a man ready to change his mind when 
he saw cause, and to say he had changed his mind, and to 
act accordingly with high enthusiasm. Oh that among 
the great and strong men of the world there were more 
frequent instances of this admirable spirit ! ^ 

Three years longer, making five years in all. Dr. Boyce 
resided in Louisville before he could effect the removal of 

^ Mr. Long's sons also contribated largely, and his son-in-law, 
W. C. Hall, Esq., of Louisville, who is a Trustee of the Seminary. 



244 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

the Seminary. Numerous journeys had to be made into all 
parts of Kentucky, not only to associations and churches, 
but again and again to the home of some man who was 
able and possibly might be willing to help largely. Little 
by little brethren were brought to understand the nature 
and the aims of the Seminary, and what he considered its 
unrivalled adaptation to the wants of the Baptist ministry 
in general. Slowly one and another man came to believe 
that it was really worth while to have such an institution 
in Kentucky, and worth his while to help. More and 
more the excellent Baptist men and women of the city and 
State came to know Dr. Boyce personally, to appreciate 
.the strength and nobleness of his character, the breadth of 
his good sense and beauty of his gentlemanly bearing, the 
sincerity and devotion of his personal piety. In fact, a 
large proportion of people, even among those of consider- 
able intelligence, can seldom be brought to take lively 
interest in something still future and distant, in some 
enterprise of which they have no personal experience, 
until they come to know and love its living representa- 
tive. This makes it quite important that corresponding 
secretaries and other general agents should not be too 
often changed. Many began to help Dr. Boyce because 
they loved him and sympathized with his intense desire ; 
others because they saw he would never give up, would 
keep at it till he succeeded, and would politely keep after 
them till they yielded. Oh, the long, sore struggle for the 
high-toned gentleman, the ambitious student cut off from 
the studies he loved, the man who had devoted himself 
to teaching, and now, year after year, could not teach 
at all I 

He also found it necessary to make many journeys to 
other States, with a view to obtain from them the requisite 
$200,000, which with the expected Kentucky contribution 
would make half a million of endowment. There is men- 
tion in a letter of July, 1876, of such a trip recently made 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 245 

to Texas and Mississippi. In the beginning of 1876 
he had an agent at work in Texas, Key. A. J. Holt, and 
at the same time Rev. G. W. Given began to help him in 
Kentucky. In the beginning of 1877 Dr. M. B. Wharton 
commenced an agency of several years in Georgia, Ala- 
bama, and other States ; and there were various other agents 
whose names are not recalled. At the Richmond meeting 
of the S. B. Convention in May, 1876, resolutions were 
adopted, on motion of Hon. J. L. M. Curry, expressing a 
deep interest in the Seminary, and a strong desire for the 
early completion of its endowment, and warmly recom- 
mending liberal and speedy contributions, with a view to 
secure the completion of the requisite endowment, if pos- 
sible, by the end of that year. And for this purpose the 
Board authorized the General Financial Agent (Dr. Boyce) 
to employ as many helpers as he should think proper. 

Through all these financial labors Dr. Boyce gladly 
embraced numerous opportunities for preaching, both in 
his journeys and at Louisville. In January, 1875, it is 
mentioned in a letter that he is preaching at Walnut 
Street, where the church had at that time no pastor. 
Though frequently interrupted by necessary journeys, he 
supplied the pulpit for many months. He also preached 
in the other Baptist churches of the city a number of 
times, and to several churches of other denominations. 
With the spirit of a true preacher, Dr. Boyce yearned 
after the pulpit and the pastorate. "No man is fit to be a 
theological professor who would not really prefer to be a 
pastor. But think what is thereby involved of sacrifice 
for every man fitly engaged in such instruction ! Once, in 
1875, Dr. Boyce wrote to Dr. Tupper that he sometimes 
felt strongly tempted to let go the Seminary and devote 
himself to pastoral work. 

The internal history of the Seminary, during these 
years of Dr. Boyce's struggling efforts to prepare for 
removal, was quiet and fairly prosperous for some four 



246 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

years. The number of students rose to over sixty, and 
included not a few men of remarkable gifts and promiae. 
Drs. Toy and Whitsitt were putting forth their finest 
energies in study and teaching. Dr. Williams was mak- 
ing Systematic Theology a delight to the students, while 
still keeping up his former classes in Church History, and 
Church Government and Pastoral Duties. But, alas ! his 
health somewhat suddenly gave way. He had never been 
exactly a vigorous man, was little inclined to exercise, and 
worked with great mental intensity. The strain of double 
work, continued year after year, through the impossibility 
of Dr. Boyce's returning, wore him out more seriously 
than any of us were aware. He would not think it neces- 
sary to give up his country churches, where he was greatly 
beloved, and found preaching a constant joy. One winter 
night he slept in a small room with a missing pane of 
glass. The result was a deep cold, and a throat ail to 
which he would not yield, and which steadily worked its 
way downward. He had an indomitable spirit, and could 
not bear to acknowledge himself unable to go on with his 
loved work, until at last he stopped through sheer neces- 
sity, and all too late. The Board at Richmond in May, 
1876, authorized the faculty to employ competent brethren 
to give aid in the instruction, in consequence of Dr. Wil- 
liams's ill health, to whom they tendered leave of absence, 
with salary continued. The faculty arranged that Church 
History should be taught by Assistant-Professor Whitsitt, 
and Latin Theology by Professor Toy. In the general or 
English Theology class Dr. J. L. Reynolds, then professor 
in Eurman University, gave three lectures a week, and in 
Church Government and Pastoral Duties two lectures a week 
were given by President James C. Eurman. . In Homiletics, 
Dr. James C. Hiden, then pastor in Greenville, gave aid 
in the instruction, and especially in correcting the written 
exercises, as the professor in. that department had to 
resume the Junior Class in Greek, previously taught by 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 247 

Professor Whitsitt. The faculty were very thankful that 
three gentlemen were on the ground so remarkably 
competent to give aid in these several schools. 

At the same Richmond meeting of the Board of Trustees, 
the new degree of ''English Graduate" was established. 
This meant, and has continued to mean, that when a 
student has been graduated separately in every school or 
department except the classes in Hebrew and Greek 
and the Latin class in Theology, he shall receive a 
general diploma as an English Graduate of the Sem^ 
inary. It should be observed that this is not a separate 
course, pursued by those only who do not study the 
learned languages, but these men have studied all their 
subjects in the same classes with the men who also study 
Hebrew, etc. 

Dr. Williams made conscientious efEorts, going to the 
mountains in summer, and down the country in winter, to 
resist the fell ravages of consumption. But the movement 
was sadly rapid. He died at Aiken, S. C, Eeb. 20, 1877, 
a little less than fifty-six years of age. He was buried at 
Greenville, and Dr. Boyce came from Louisville to take 
part in the funeral services. The text for the funeral dis- 
course by Dr. Broadus had been indicated by Dr. Williams 
himself: ''My times are in thy hand." It is vain to 
attempt any fitting eulogy of William Williams. Besides 
the high intellectual powers which have been several 
times referred to in this narrative, his character was such 
as to ccvmmand profound respect and warm affection. 
While undemonstrative in manner, and scorning all pre- 
tence, it needed only to know him fairly well, and you 
would love him warmly. Whoever knew a man more 
completely genuine, more thoroughly sincere, more consci- 
entious in all his doings? Through life he continued to 
exhibit those qualities of mind and character which he had 
shown already in college days, and which are so well 
stated by Dr. J. L. M. Curry, who was his younger fellow- 



248 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

studeut iu Franklin College, Georgia, now the University 
of Georgia : — 

** In his classes he was easily first, and the first honor which he 
attained at his graduation, was the proof of his industry and attain- 
ments in the College course. The qualifications of mind which 
gave hiin success in the class-room gave him success in the 
dehating society, and at that period the dehatiug societies were 
conducted with an enthusiasm, an interest, a devotion, an emula- 
tion that I have not known elsewhere or since. His power of 
analysis, his keen and thorough perception, his clearness of state- 
ment, his discrimination between the true and the false, the 
genuine and the specious, his apt and concise language, his 
honesty of thinking, made him a master in debate. I recall a 
public speech which he made during his Senior year, on tem- 
perance, — a dry subject, unless illustrated by anecdote and 
eloquence. It was short, simple, compact, argumentative, con- 
clusive ; and I heard no speech during my college days which 
elicited such favorable comment. In personal intercourse he won 
respect and regard by quietness of manner, unvarying courtesy, 
frankness of speech, uprightness of conduct, and independence of 
thought. No one who knew him in college life was surprised at 
his remarkable career as a lawyer, a preacher, and a teacher." 

Dr. Williams liked best to prepare his sermons by care- 
fully writing them in full; then, leaving the manuscript 
at home, and making no attempt at recitation, he spoke 
freely. By this means he secured the condensation and 
terseness in which he so delighted and so excelled; and 
yet the delivery was living speech. This method of pre- 
paring and preaching has great advantages for those with 
whom it never degenerates into recitation. It would be a 
good thing for our ministry if a volume of Dr. Williams's 
se^'mons could be published and widely scattered. 

It proved impossible for Dr. Boyce to secure pledges 
for the entire three hundred thousand dollars in Kentucky 
and two hundred thousand in other States by the end of 
1876, or by May of the following year. But the work had 



EFFORTS TO REMOVE THE SEMINARY. 249 

so far progressed as to give assurance that it would ulti- 
mately succeed. Very encouraging was the gift, by Dr. 
and Mrs. J. Lawrence Smith, of a tract of land not far 
from Louisville, which seemed likely to prove extremely 
valuable; and we know that other important gifts came 
afterwards from the same source. There were not a few, 
in the city and State, who by this time had given quite 
generously. Dr. Arthur Peter made at the outset a 
large gift in land. Messrs. George W. and W. F. 
Norton had begun what proved to be a series of noble 
contributions. Messrs. Joe Werne, J. C. McFerran, J. B. 
McFerran, John S. Long, W. C. Hall, Theodore Harris, 
and C. W. Gheens had given five thousand dollars each, 
twelve persons had given one thousand each, including 
three who were not Baptists; and many of the smaller 
contributions were in fact extremely generous. There had 
also been some very gratifying donations elsewhere in 
Kentucky, and in other States. And now the conclusion 
was reached that the removal should no longer be deferred. 
It appeared necessary that Boyce should resume teaching, 
as Williams had been taken away; and yet he could not 
let go his hold upon the endowment work of which Louis- 
ville was the centre. The number of students in attend- 
ance at Greenville had for four years stood still at sixty-six 
to sixty-eight, and was not likely to increase without some 
forward movement. All concerned were growing weary of 
the long delay and the apparent uncertainty. Something 
was needed to give a new impulse to the whole enterprise. 
So the Board resolved, in the meeting at New Orleans in 
May, 1877, that the Seminary should be removed at once, 
— a proper understanding being reached during the sum- 
mer with the General Association of Kentucky, so as to 
leave no hitch as to the pledges for endowment. 

The idea of immediate removal was favorably received. 
Friends in Louisville and Kentucky felt cheered and 
assured. The long-cherished idea was about to descend 



L'dO MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

from the clouds and become an accomplished iaeL To be 
sure, there was as yet bat little of endowment actually 
invested and yielding income. The annual receipts upon 
the five-year bonds of 1874 were in considerable part 
needed to support agents in different States^ in order to 
make farther collections for endowment. But necessary 
progress is true prudence; and although the Seminary 
suffered great financial difficulties a few years lat«r, no 
one has ever questioned that it was wise to effect the 
removal without further delay. 



IN THE SBMINABY AT LOUISVILLE. 261 



CHAPTER XV. 

TEN BUSY YEARS IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE, 

1877-1887. 

IT was physically no great task to remove the Seminary 
from Greenville to Louisville. There was nothing to 
move, except the library of a few thousand volumes, and 
three professors, — Broadus, Toy, and Whitsitt, — only 
one of whom had a family. We all loved Greenville 
warmly. We had found the climate healthy, and the 
community remarkably agreeable. We were strongly 
attached to the Baptist Church, the professors in Furman 
University, and many other valued friends, of all persua- 
sions and pursuits. The Seminary had existed there for 
eighteen years, gathering many valued associations, and 
we had to leave behind the tomb of our cherished colleague, 
and other sacred spots. But there was no donbt in any 
mind among us that the removal was wise, and all felt 
hopeful that the results would vindicate the decision which 
had been reached. There was at once a considerable in- 
crease of attendance, the whole number of students for the 
first session at Louisville being eighty-nine, while sixty- 
eight had been the largest number before. 

The session opened Sept. 1, 1877, and on the previous 
evening, in the Public Library Hall (now the Polytechnic 
building). Dr. Boyce devoted the usual Introductory 
Lecture to an outline of the Seminary's history, and its 
peculiar plans of instruction. This lecture was published 
in the ** Western Recorder.'' Some extracts from it will 
indicate the views and feelings with which he now looked 
back upon his years of toil and trial, and onwards to the 



252 MEMOIR OF JAMES F^ BOYCE. 

SemiDary*s prospects and hopes. The first extract merely 
alludes, in passing, to opposition which he had encoun- 
tered in various ways, sometimes unkind, and personally 
painful. 

" I do Dot propose to recount the history of this enterprise. 
That history, so far as it ever can be written, must await the full 
fruition of all (»ur hopes, and should come from one less intiinately 
associated with it than I have been. It never can be written in 
full ; it never ought to be thus written. It is only God's inspira- 
tion which dare speak of evils and faults and injuries and calum- 
nies proceeding from men whom we know to be good. That 
inspired Word alone can make these simply the shadows which 
bring out more gloriously the brightness of the character of the 
good. Human prejudice and passion would make hideous deform- 
ity of all by the excesses which its pencillings would exhibit. 
Let all such evil be buried in the silence of forgetfulness. Let 
the history, when written, tell only of the toils and trials and sacri- 
fices, and wisdom and prudence and furesight, and prayers and tears 
and faith, of the people of God to whom the institution will have 
owed its existence and its possibilities of blessing. And God grant 
that it may go down to succeeding ages to bless his cause and 
glorify his name when all of us here have been forgotten in this 
world forever I In the establishment and endowment of this 
Seminary we think we have solved a problem of interest, not to 
Baptists of the South alone, but to all who are interested in the 
ministry of Christ as an instrumentality for the salvation of souls 
and the edification of his saints." 

He then traces the series of movements, ending with a 
meeting in Louisville twenty years before, which had is- 
sued in the establishment of the Seminary at Greenville. 

" The wise course pursued in the adoption of the constitution 
and manner of working of this Seminary, to a great degree made 
final success certain. Men who had objected to previous plans of 
theological education yielded readily to this. By it all the objec- 
tions formerly urged seemed to have been removed. The means 
of convincing the masses had already thus been attained. From 
the beginning the work of endowment was popular. The funds 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 253 

were readily contributed. In less than six months nearly one- 
half the amount needed had been pledged in South Can)lina) and 
within two years the remainder had been subscribed in the other 
States of the South." 

But up to that time only the Atlantic Southern States 
and some of the Gulf States had shown much interest in 
the movement. The calamities of the war were overruled 
for good. Losing the endowment, and compelled after 
the war to seek aid for temporary support wherever it 
could be found, the Seminary had enlisted a wide sym- 
pathy, and had thus become what it was intended to be, — 
the common Seminary of the Baptists of the South. 

'' The influence it has to-day in the entire South is marvellous. 
No enterprise of Southern Baptists lies nearer to their hearts, or 
is more liberally contributed to of their means, than this. Signal 
proofs of the facts could be given, were they necessary." 

After spealdng warmly of Greenville,— the place and 
the people, — he goes on, — 

'* But the disadvantages of a location in a small town were 
soon realized. There was not room enough for practical work. 
Our object had been practical training as well as efficient study. 
This could not be done there, and the opportunity of doing 
both of them is admimbly secured here. To recount the cir- 
cumstances under which we have been led to Louisville would 
be to give an interesting chapter in the history of God's provi- 
dence. Suffice it to say that the calamities of the war forced us 
to remove Irom South Carolina. The first endowment having 
been lost, it was necessary to secure another. In that other, 
South Carolina could not give the amount necessary irom the 
State in which the Seminary is located, scarcely able, as its 
Baptist population now is, to complete the endowment of the 
Furman University, which they had previously established. In 
seeking a home elsewhere, we have been fortunately brought to 
this city. Its vast extent and large population, with the thou- 
sands here who need the instruction which Sunday-schools and 
small preaching places can afford, furnish every facility for exer- 



2o4 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

cisiog oar pupils in the practical work of pastor and preacher. 
With its extensive railroad facilities we are put in immediate 
connection with all portions of the South. . . . Beginning with 
Maryland on the northeast, and extending to Missouri on the north- 
west, thence to Texas on the southwest, and to Florida on the 
southeast, ... in connection with the Southern Baptist Conven- 
tion there are one million one hundred thousand church-memhors, 
and five million five hundred thousand persons associated with 
Baptist congregations, seven thousand ministers, and thirteen 
thousand churches. From these we must expect large numbers. 
I have been accustomed to estimate the possibility of five hundred 
students in attendance after a lapse of some years. I see no reason 
why this should not be so. 

** Our chief difficulty lay in the varied degrees of cultivation 
and knowledge possessed by our ministry. They are as far from 
being homogeneous in this respect as they well can be. The 
vast multitude have had but the advantages of English educa- 
tion, and many of them even in this respect are very defective. 
A large number have attained the education afforded by our 
ordinary colleges. Some have been trained in institutions which 
will compare with any in the land. The variety of natural gifts 
is as diversified as that of educational development. These are 
facts in our ministry which must be considered in the solution of 
this problem. How, then, shall provision be made for all classes 
of such a ministry ? 

"We cannot prevent this diversity, if we desire to do so. 
Many of us think it just the kind of ministry we should have. 
We believe that what appears to human eyes a source of weak- 
ness is in reality a source of strength. But our time to-night 
forbids the attempt to argue this question at length. Suffice it 
to point to the extensive use made by the Romish Church of just 
such instrumentalities, and to the further fact that the two largest 
denominations in this country, which have entirely under their 
influence twenty-five of the fifty millions of its population (I 
mean the Methodists and Baptists) are the two which alone foster 
and rely upon men of such a variety of learning and ability. The 
humblest and most untaught of this ministry are not necessarily 
ignorant of the Word of God, though these may sometimes pre- 
sent it in a rough and uncouth form. They may also be, and 
commonly are, full of faith and prayer and zeal in the preaching 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 265 

of the simple gospeL . . . That God has hlessed this ministry of 
varied classes we cannot doubt, as we remember the abundant 
proofs it has brought forth. Standing here to-night amid the 
cultivation and scholarship of the ministry of this favored city, 
and among some, doubtless, who disagree with the opinion I 
express, I freely state my own personal conviction that it is the 
kind of ministry which Grod has ordained for the conversion of 
(he world and the edification of his people. ... I believe that 
no denomination can exert a widespread influence throughout all 
classes of the people which does not receive its ministry from 
classes as varied as the membership it contains. 

**For us, at any rate, this ministry of varied classes is an 
existing fact. The very structure of our church polity renders it 
impossible to rid ourselves of it. What, then, shall be done with 
this ministry, so far as theological education is concerned ? Shall 
we make no provision for it ? Shall we have schools for mere 
English students, and others for those of classical culture, or shall 
we combine in one common Seminary instruction for them all? 

" Some have proposed separate schools for men of collegiate 
and non-collcgiate attainments. Others have admitted the mere 
English students to pursue in an imperfect and desultory manner, 
at such times and in such classes as were possible, such studies 
as they might pick out here and there from a course arranged 
especially for men of collegiate education. Our plan has been to 
arrange equally for these and for those of higher culture, — even 
the highest, — in the one common theological seminary. Which 
is the wiser course! Which best solves the problem of the 
varied ministry? Looking back at the past from the stand- 
point of to-night, we believe that ours is the true solution. In 
it, at least, we give to men of merely English culture all the 
advantages they would gain by having a separate school. Every 
subject which could be taught is as clearly and fully presented to 
them as though it were to be comprehended by no other minds 
than theirs. A wide range of study has been made accessible to 
them. At the same time, we have not lowered the standard for 
men of the highest culture, but, on the contrary, have from the 
very arrangements necessary for our merely English students been 
able to extend the course of the better-educated beyond what we 
could otherwise have done. Neither is there any omission of any 
study, or any part of a study, usual in theological institutions, but, 



256 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

on the contrary, we add to the usual curriculum. If at any time 
and in any respect the teaching falls below what is elsewhere 
given, that is due, not to the fault of the system, nor to the 
training and attainments of the students, but to the difference of 
ability and learning which one instructor possesses as compared 
with another. In other words, the same professor will teach 
more thoroughly and completely under this than under the usual 
system. 

'* The first change we make is in dropping the form of classes 
arranged according to the number of years of attendance, and 
adopting that of separate classes, completing each study within 
the one session in which it is taken. The other system goes 
upon the mistaken v supposition that all students can advance 
equally over a given study in the same time. This is not true 
even of college graduates. Wherever students are arranged in 
curriculum classes, the amount of study must be adapted to the 
average capacity of the class in all the studies pursued together, 
and not to that average in one study only, as in separate schools. 
The consequence is that men of better minds and preparation 
are retarded, and those who are below the average are unable 
thoroughly to master the subjects of study. But if each one 
selects such a number of studies as be can successfully pursue, 
some may take only two, others three, others even four or more, 
and the difference in capacity and training is compensated by the 
greater or less amount of work undertaken. This is to the com- 
mon advantage of all. No one is kept back by the incapacity of 
others, and no one forced to learn imperfectly for lack of time to 
do the work thoroughly. . . . The simple division into schools 
of subjects, rather than into classes of men, gives the needed 
condition of successful work for all. 

'^A second equally simple arrangement has been to have a 
separate hour for each study, so that no two classes are reciting 
at the same time. It matters not, therefore, what subjects are 
taken, the student finds his recitation hours entirely distinct; and 
not conflicting with each other." 

Dr. Boyce then goes on to show how these arrangements 
enable the student to spend in the Seminary one year, or 
two, three, or four years, or even more, selecting for each 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 257 

year the subjects best adapted to his wishes and prepara- 
tion, and completing each subject within the session. He 
shows that this plan has not only great advantages for the 
students, but also for the professors. 

*' I think I speak in reason when I say that under this system 
any professor can accomplish twofold as thorough work as he 
could under the arrangement usually made. . . . From this 
review of the course it is manifest that by our system no student 
suffers any detriment, but that both kinds of students are the nither 
benefited by the arrangements for united study. It may be stated 
that this result was unexpected. We had believed that no injury 
would accrue. We had not dreamed of the greater extent to 
which, in this and in other ways, the studies of the college-bred 
students would be extended by a plan, the primary object of which 
had been to make provision for the better instruction of the mere 
English students." 

Here again, in Louisville, as when opening the Semi- 
nary in Greenville, Dr. Boyce suggested that the Seminary 
should abstain from erecting buildings until adequate provi- 
sion should first have been made for supporting the instruc- 
tion. He rented lecture-rooms and a library room in the 
third and fourth stories of what was then known as Public 
Library Hall, now the Polytechnic. A hotel of moderate 
size was rented, with additional rooms in a building not far 
away, to supply the wants of students. Such continued to 
be the Seminary's local habitation for a number of years. 
A theological school draws almost all of its students from a 
distance, and therefore is less dependent than other insti- 
tutions upon the local attraction of large and handsome 
buildings. These are very desirable, to interest the general 
community, to gratify the friends in general, and to carry 
on the teaching with full convenience and advantage ; but 
they are not indispensable in attracting students. Many 
a struggling institution has been long hindered, some 
have been even ruined, by the erection of costly build- 
ings before the time. The main thing in any educational 

17 



258 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

establishment, and especially in what are called profes- 
sional schools, is always the teaching. Sooner or later, good 
teaching is recognized, and bad teaching is detected. 

It was found, to an even greater extent than had been 
anticipated, that the students could live more cheaply in 
Louisville than they had done in Greenville, because 
Louisville is a provision centre, and almost all supplies 
could be procured at wholesale rates. It was of course 
otherwise with professors having families, for whom life 
in a large city is in many ways expensive; and beii>g un- 
able to provide dwellings, the Seminary made a special 
provision for house-rent. The professors and their fami- 
lies were most cordially received by leading Baptist families 
of the city, and many citizens of various denominations. 
The hearts of Kentuckians are big and warm. The social 
life of Louisville was at once seen to be of uncommon 
excellence and attractiveness. One of the professors had 
stated some years before, at the General Association of 
Kentucky, that if he had to leave South Carolina and 
couldn't go back to Virginia, he had rather remove to 
Kentucky than anywhere else ; and that they ought to take 
this as a compliment, -^ which niany heartily said they did. 
There has never been occasion to abate this admiration of 
Kentuckians, 

It was a great pleasure to Dr. Boyce himself and to his 
colleagues that he could once more resume the work of 
regular teaching, from which he had been cut oS. for five 
weary years. For the first two years at Louisville he was 
still called the Professor of Ecclesiastical History, but in 
fact taught Systematic Theology, of which there was nom- 
inally no professor. Professor Whitsitt had begun to 
teach Ecclesiastical History after Dr. Williams's health 
gave way, and he continued to do this provisionally at 
Louisville until he was finally made professor in that de- 
partment, to which in the coarse of the years he has giY^n 
a quite extraordinary attractiveness. Dr. Boyce was earn* 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 259 

estly urged by his other colleagues to resume the teaching 
of Systematic Theology, to which he was far from averse, 
if satisfied that such an arrangement was best. The sacri- 
fice he had made in giving up that department had turned 
out to be on his part only a matter of feeling, as he never 
had opportunity to teach Church History at all, and could 
now resume the subject to which he had always been 
devoted. His colleagues expressed to him the full conyic 
tion that while few men in all the world could equal Dr. 
Williams in lecturing on theology, and the students had 
unspeakably enjoyed his clear and vigorous statements of 
doctrine, yet Dr. Boyce could do still more towards giving 
them a profound personal acquaintance with doctrinal truth 
by that system of thorough drill in recitation which he had 
derived from President Way land, and had developed in his 
own fashion. 

The number of students for the second session at Louis- 
ville rose to ninety-six, and it was evident that the atten- 
dance would continue to increase. The financial situation 
was not entirely satisfactory, as will hereafter appear, 
though Dr. Boyce was still hopeful of carrying through 
the existing plan. 

But at the end of the first Louisville session, and through- 
out the second, the Seminary was found to be involved in 
a new and painful difficulty, which weighed heavily upon 
Dr. Boyce's heart. Certain views in the historical and 
literary criticism of the Old Testament, which in later 
years are popularly described by the misused term ** higher 
criticism,'' were found to have been adopted and taught 
by our justly honored and dearly beloved colleague. Dr. 
Toy. As this became a matter of notoriety, and yet a 
good many failed to understand Dr. Toy, on the one hand, 
or Dr. Boyce on the other, it may be proper to give a plain 
statement of the facts, which are believed to show nothing 
in the least discreditable to the character and motives of 
either party. 



260 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Dr. Toy had entered upon the study and teaching of 
the Old Testament with the idea that it was very impor- 
tant to hring the Scriptural references to physical phe- 
nomena into recognized harmony with all assured results 
of physical science. He had himself heen, while chiefly 
devoted to language and kindred suhjects, an eager student 
of various physical sciences. During his first years as pro- 
fessor in Greenville, he made earnest attempts, upon one or 
another line of theory, to reconcile the existing views of 
geology and astronomy with Old Testament statements, 
and afterwards to hring the tenth chapter of Genesis into 
harmony with the current ethnological views. Kone of 
these attempts were entirely satisfactory to his own mind. 
Some persons think that such theoretical reconciliation 
between sciences still inchoate, and interpretations still 
incomplete, must of necessity be only tentative, and the 
matters left to grow clearer for men of the future. Bat 
our young professor could not be content without every 
year renewing his efforts. About that time appeared the 
most important works of Darwin, and Dr. Toy became a 
pronounced evolutionist and Darwinian, giving once a 
popular lecture in Greenville to interpret and advocate 
Darwin's views of the origin of man. About the same 
time he became acquainted with Kuenen's works on the 
Old Testament, presenting the now well-known evolu- 
tionist reconstruction of the history of Israel, and reloca- 
tion of the leading Old Testament'^ documents. These 
works, and kindred materials coming from Wellhausen and 
others in Germany, profoundly interested Dr. Toy. They 
reconciled Old Testament history with the evolutionary 
principles to which he had become attached in the study 
of Herbert Spencer and Darwin. If the Darwinian theory 
of the origin of man has been accepted, then it becomes 
easy to conclude that the first chapter of Genesis is by no 
means true history. From this starting-point, and pressed 
by a desire to reconstruct the history on evolutionary 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 261 

principles, one might easily persuade himself that in 
numerous other cases of apparent conflict between Old 
Testament statements and the accredited results of various 
sciences the conflict is real, and the Old Testament account 
is incorrect. This persuasion would seem to the critic to 
justify his removing various books and portions of books 
into other periods of the history of Israel, so as to make that 
history a regular evolution from simpler to more complex. 
For example, it is held that the laws of Moses cannot have 
arisen in that early and simpler stage of Israelitish history 
to which Moses belonged, but only in a much later and 
more highly developed period, — all of which might look 
reasonable enough if we leave the supernatural out of view. 
Then the passion grows stronger for so re-locating and 
reconstructing as to make everything in the history of 
Israel a mere natural evolution; and the tendency of this, 
if logically and fearlessly carried through, must be to 
exclude the supernatural from that history altogether. 
These views would of course be supported by certain well- 
known theories to the effect that the first six books of the 
Old Testament were put together out of several different 
documents, as indicated by certain leading terms, and 
other characteristic marks of style and tone. 

Near the end of the Seminary's first session at Louisville 
it became known to his colleagues that Professor Toy had 
been teaching some views in conflict with the full inspir- 
ation and accuracy of the Old Testament writings. By 
inquiry of him, it was learned that he had gone very far 
in the adoption and varied application of the evolutionary 
theories above indicated. Dr. Boyce was not only himself 
opposed, most squarely and strongly, to all such views, but 
he well knew that nothing of that kind could be taught 
in the Seminary without doing violence to its aims and 
objects, and giving the gravest offence to its supporters in 
general. Duty to the founders of the institution and to 
all who had given money for its support and endowment. 



262 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

duty to the Baptist churches from whom its students must 
come, required him to see to it that such teaching should 
not continue. From the first he saw all this clearly, and 
felt it deeply. Anxious to avoid anything that might 
look like an official inquisition, he laid these convictions 
before Dr. Toy through a colleague who had been the lat- 
ter's intimate friend from his youth. Dr. Toy was fully 
convinced that the views he had adopted were correct, and 
would, by removing many intellectual difficulties, greatly 
promote faith in the Scriptures. Besides opposing that 
opinion, it was urged upon his consideration that these 
ideas could not be taught in the Seminary, and moreover 
that the great majority of the students were quite unpre- 
pared for fitting examination of any such theoretical 
inquiries, and needed to be instructed in the Old Testament 
history as it stands. He was entreated to let those theo- 
retical questions alone, and teach the students what they 
needed. He promised to do this ; and in entering upon 
the next session, of course tried faithfully to keep his 
promise. It was fondly hoped by his colleagues that in 
quietly pursuing such a course he might ultimately break 
away from the dominion of destructive theories. But 
some students had become aware of ideas he had taught the 
previous session, which excited their curiosity, and kept 
asking questions which he felt bound to answer. So, as 
the session went on, he frankly stated that he found it 
impossible to leave out those inquiries, or abstain from 
teaching the opinions he held. 

It was hard for Dr. Toy to realize that such teaching 
was quite out of the question in this institution. He was 
satisfied that his views would promote truth and piety. 
He thought strange of the prediction made in conversation 
that within twenty years he would utterly discard all belief 
in the supernatural as an element of Scripture, — a predic- 
tion founded upon knowledge of his logical consistency and 
boldness, and already in a much shorter time fulfilled, 



IN THE SEMINABY AT LOUISVILLE. 263 

to judge from his latest works. Some of us are persuaded 
that if any man adopts the evolutionary reconstruction of 
Old Testament history and literature^ and does not reach 
a like attitude as regards the supernatural, it is simply 
because he is prevented; by temperament or environment, 
from carrying things to their logical results. While not 
himself perceiving that the opinions he was teaching 
formed a just ground for his leaving the Seminary, Dr. 
Toy concluded to send to the Board of Trustees at its 
approaching session in Atlanta, May, 1879, a statement of 
the views that he had adopted, and of his persuasion that 
by teaching them he could do much good; and, in order to 
relieve the Board from restraints of delicacy, he tendered 
his resignation. 

After due consideration, the Board voted almost unani* 
mously to accept the resignation. The regret at this 
necessity was universal and profound, and perhaps deeper 
in the Faculty than anywhere else. Dr. Toy had shown 
himself not only a remarkable scholar, and a most honor- 
able and lovable gentleman, but also a very able and inspir- 
ing teacher, and a colleague with whom, as to all personal 
relations, it was delightful to be associated. Some of his 
attached former pupils and other friends thought that 
there was no necessity for losing him, and that his views 
were not really in any high degree objectionable, and 
began vehement remonstrances in private or in the news- 
papers. This proceeded in a very few cases from sympathy 
with his opinions ; in most cases from lack of acquaintance 
with the real nature of those opinions and their necessary 
outcome. Dr. Boj'^ce's personal grief at the loss was shown 
by a slight but impressive incident. When Dr. Toy 
returned to Louisville, and had made his preparations 
to leave, his two colleagues who were here went to the 
railway station. The three happened to stand for a little 
while alone in a waiting-room; and throwing his left arm 
around Toy's neck. Dr. Boyce lifted the right arm before 



264 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

him, and said, in a passion of grief, ^'Oh, Toy, I would 
freely give that arm to be cut off if you could be where 
you were ^ye years ago, and stay there." 

After a year or two given to literary pursuits in New 
York city, Dr. Toy was elected Professor of Hebrew in 
Harvard University. A letter of inquiry from the cele- 
brated Ezra Abbot had led one of the Louisville professors 
to send a most cordial recommendation, with the explana- 
tion that Dr. Toy's leaving the Seminary was due to noth- 
ing whatever but his holding views like those of Kuenen 
and Wellhausen, — to which there would, of course, be no 
objection in Harvard. 

To the now vacant chair of the Old Testament the Trus- 
tees elected Dr. Basil Manly, who, after serving eight 
years as President of Georgetown College, was willing to 
resume his former work in the Seminary. This was a 
great consolation to the other professors, who had never 
ceased deeply to regret his departure; while the known 
soundness of Dr. Manly's doctrinal convictions, with his 
admirable character and abilities, awakened a general 
feeling of satisfaction and confidence. His Inaugural 
Lecture, Sept. 1, 1879, was on the question, '* Why and 
How to Study the Bible." He dwelt on the different 
grades of ministerial education, and urged that ''the one 
central object which should be aimed at by all connected 
with a Theological Seminary is a practical knowledge of 
the Scriptures. ... If we are to be mighty in God's 
work, we must be mighty in God's word." 

For several years before leaving the Seminary, in 1871, 
Dr. Manly had made considerable annual collections for 
the purpose of aiding such students as needed it in the 
matter of paying their board, etc. For the ensuing eight 
years this task had been performed by Dr. Broadus. The 
increasing number of students demanded larger collections, 
and also put heavier burdens upon the Professor of Homi- 
letics, in the correction of sermons and other written exer- 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 266 

cises. So Dr. Manly now resumed the charge of this 
'^Students' Fund," and on this account was asked to 
teach only in the one school of the Old Testament (English 
and Hebrew). Professor Whitsitt, who had for three years 
been the actual teacher of Ecclesiastical History, besides 
his own schools of Biblical Introduction and Polemic Theo- 
logy, was now formally appointed Professor of Ecclesiasti- 
cal History also. This made for him a very heavy burden 
of work; but he performed the duties with ability and 
devotion. Dr. Boyce was at the same time formally re-ap- 
pointed Professor of Systematic Theology, which he had 
been actually teaching during the two years at Louisville, 
along with his other school of Church Government and 
Pastoral Duties. 

It was during this period of ten years from the removal 
to Louisville until his health began to fail that Dr. Boyce 
most fully developed and exhibited his powers as a teacher. 
From the tributes paid to him after his death by students 
of this period the following utterances may be taken. 
Kev. E. E. Folk, then editor of the <* Baptist Reflector," 
at Chattanooga, said: ^'He was a great teacher. He 
could get more hard, solid study out of a boy than any 
teacher whose classes we ever had the privilege of attend- 
ing, with possibly one or two exceptions. You had to 
know your Systematic Theology, or you could not recite it 
to Dr. Boyce. And though the young men were generally 
rank Arminians when they came to the Seminary, few 
went through this course under him without being con- 
verted to his strong Calvinistic views.'' During an 
informal meeting held at the Seminary upon receiving 
news of Dr. Boyce's death in Europe, among various brief 
addresses Dr. M. D. Jeffries, pastor in Louisville, said: 
"Dr. Boyce was a ceaseless worker. There were doubts 
and discussions among the students on points of doctrine, 
which he could most happily allay. To him is largely due 
the vigorous adherence to the old doctrines on the part of 



266 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

the Baptist ministry." Rev. F. D. Hale, also pastor in 
Louisville, spoke of Dr. Boyce's ''silent influence over 
him as a student. When he began Boyce's Systematic 
Theology, it threw him into great perplexity as to doc- 
trine. But he found it all of inestimable value. He had 
learned to have more faith in God and to take in the sys- 
tem of Christianity as a whole ; and he had gained such a 
firm hold of the old doctrines of grace as he never had be- 
fore, by studying under Dr. Boyce. He had also learned 
at his feet to love the work, and to sympathize with lost 
souls. He had a joy, a zeal, a hope, a faith, and a love 
for the old gospel he would never have had but for Dr. 
Boyce." Let us add the following from Dr. J. William 
Jones, a student of the Seminary's first session (1859- 
1860) : " As a teacher, Dr. Boyce greatly impressed me. 
I found very irksome at first his system of requiring the 
student to give a minute analysis of the lesson in Dick's 
Theology, which was then his leading text-book; but I 
soon got used to it, and many a time since I have had 
occasion to thank God and to thank my old professor for 
the thorough drill he gave us in the doctrines of God's 
Word." Dr. Jones adds that in later years he once 
delivered a message to Dr. Boyce from one of his more 
recent graduates, who was laboring in a region where the 
so-called "New Theology," ''advanced thought," "lib- 
eralism," and loose views generally were painfully com- 
mon. The message was: "Tell Dr. Boyce, with my 
love, that since I have been here I have thanked him a 
thousand times for his faithful teaching and thorough 
drill in Systematic Theology. What I learned of him has 
proven a healthy tonic in a malarious atmosphere." He 
says that "the great teacher's face lighted up" on receiv- 
ing the message, and he replied, "I warmly appreciate 
this. It is a very high gratification to me that during 
my life as teacher I have been enabled to do something 
towards holding our boys in the 'old paths' of God's 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 267 

Word, and so drilling them in the Old Theology of the 
inspired Book that they are not carried away hy every 
wind of doctrine that hlows in these days of 'Isms.'' Dr. 
Jones adds that in his wide travelling as a Mission Secre- 
tary, meeting a very large numher of former students of the 
Seminary, hearing them preach or freely conversing with 
them, he has found them, as a rule, *'not only effective 
preachers and efficient pastors, but sound to the core in 
their theology. Dr. Boyce has left his impress upon his 
students, and will speak through them as the years go 
on." 

The method of teaching to which these brethren have 
referred had been (as we have previously remarked) derived 
by him from the great President Way land, many of whose 
pupils have adopted the same method, developing it with 
much individual variety. In Dr. Boyce's hands it required 
that the students should analyze every paragraph of the 
lesson in the text-book, and be ready when called on, 
without questions from the teacher, to take up one para- 
graph after another, and state clearly, in their own words, 
its line of thought or argument. Numerous students have 
complained of this rigorous requirement in the early part 
of every session, but they have very generally rejoiced at a 
later period, in having acquired such thorough familiarity 
with Scripture doctrine, and having gained a faculty for 
like study of other books as they might see proper in 
coming life. The danger of this method is that it may 
degenerate into little more than memorizing of the text- 
book or lecture. The teacher has to resist this tendency. 
The better-trained students soon begin to show how the 
thing ought to be done, and the class in general derive 
from the process a highly valuable intellectual discipline, 
as well as a thorough and familiar acquaintance with doc- 
trinal truth, with the leading Scripture proofs, and the 
principal arguments for and against each position, — an 
acquaintance which cannot fail to prove of very great ad- 



268 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

vantage in all their life-long preaching and study. Dr. 
Boyce's ''Abstract of Theology," of which we are to speak 
in a subsequent chapter, was prepared as a text-book for 
this method of instruction. His successor, Dr. Kerfoot, 
had himself greatly enjoyed and profited by this kind of in- 
struction when first a student of tlie Seminary, 1869-1870, 
and continues to follow it with vigor and enthusiasm. 

By advice of Dr. Hodge when at Princeton, Boyce had 
gained some acquaintance with the masterly treatise on 
Theology by Francis Turrettin, who taught in Geneva, 
1653-1687. For one who sympathizes with what we call the 
Calvinistic, or Augustinian, type of Theology, this work is 
in certain important respects unrivalled. Many a subject 
is presented with such exact analysis, such complete state- 
ment, such consummate argumentation, as one very rarely 
encounters in the noblest writings. Some persons call the 
book dry, — an epithet which not a few apply to all systema- 
tic theological discussions ; but to Dr. Boyce it was simply 
delightful. It gratified his taste for analysis, it satisfied 
his Calvinistic convictions, its energetic and forcible exhi- 
bitions of truth awakened in him practical as well as 
intellectual sympathy. From the foundation of the Semi- 
nary it had been his favorite idea that as in tlie study 
of Scripture there were separate classes in English and 
Hebrew, and in English and Greek, so in Theology there 
should be separate classes, using English and Latin text- 
books. Wliile the chief instruction in Theology should be 
brought within reach of intelligent men having only an 
English education, there should be a separate class for men 
acquainted with Latin, and desiring to make wider and 
deeper study by means of Latin text-books. During the 
first sessions he used Turrettin alone ; but soon began to 
add some treatises from Tertullian and Augustine, with 
Anselm's '* Cur Deus Homo." After getting fairly to work 
again at Louisville, he transferred such reading of Latin 
Fathers, etc., to a '' special class " of Patristic Latin, such 



IN THE SEMINABY AT LOUISVILLE. 269 

as had long existed for Patristic Greek, and began to com- 
bine with Torrettin a good deal of reading in the ^' Summa 
TheologisB " of Thomas Aquinas, who is recognized as one 
of the foremost philosophical and theological thinkers, and 
of late years has been recommended anew by the present 
Pope for Koman Catholic students. A few of Dr. Boyce's 
students heartily sympathized with his delight in these 
great authors; perhaps a good many worked through the 
course in ** Latin Theology " only because it was necessary 
to the degree of Full Graduate. Of late there are signs of 
growing interest in this department, such as Dr. Boyce 
fondly hoped would arise in the course of years. 

The subject of Church Grovernment he also found quite 
congenial. Not content with discussing Baptist views of 
the constitution and government of a church, he took a 
wide range, exhibiting the great Roman Catholic system, 
which is one of the most remarkable products of the 
Koman genius for organization and government; and so 
as to various other systems. The theory and practice of 
church government appealed to both sides of his nature, 
as a scholar and thinker on the one hand, and on the other 
a statesman and a man of business. In teaching Pastoral 
Duties, his admirable good sense, good feeling, and good 
taste availed much, though he had never had experience 
of a large pastorate. In adding to this branch a course of 
instruction in Parliamentary Practice, with Mell's excel- 
lent little volume as a text-book, Dr. Boyce was at his best, 
and the course has proved of real value to the students. 
Not only our Baptist Conventions and Associations, but 
every Baptist church-meeting must be dealt with as a free 
popular assembly, and it becomes highly important that 
our pastors should have such genuine acquaintance, not 
only with ** rules of order," but with the principles in- 
volved, as will prepare them to conduct the meetings 
with easy and quiet movement, and with fairness to all 
concerned. An arbitrary presiding officer may seem to 



270 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

expedite business, but will inevitably sometimes be unjust 
to one or another member of the assembly. A ** little 
learning" as to rules of order will often promote only 
fussy wrangling, and waste of time and temper. The sub- 
ject needs to be really studied, though it is not difficult, 
nor very extensive. There has been marked improvement 
in our Baptist conventions and churches as to this matter 
during the past forty years, and there is room and hope for 
a yet more general and thorough acquaintance with the 
proper conduct of popular assemblies. 

Besides his ever insatiable longing for extensive knowl- 
edge and varied reading, Dr. Boyce gladly turned his 
attention to various branches of study which might contri- 
bute to success in his own lines of teaching. He went to 
work at the German language when fifty years old, and 
was soon able to make some use of German works on The- 
ology. He attended, a year or two later, the full course 
of instruction in the Senior Greek class of the Seminary, 
preparing every lesson and listening with steady interest, 
asking questions and taking notes. He was especially 
interested in Text-criticism as applied to the New Testa- 
ment, which an English professor has declared to be nearer 
an exact science than any other department of theological 
study. When the second volume of Westcott and Hort's 
Greek Testament appeared, containing their elaborate sys- 
tem of text-criticism, he went carefully through it, though 
the style is difficult, and mastered with great satisfaction 
its scientific method and interestin'g results. Ah, if only 
the Seminary's finances had reached a satisfactory condi- 
tion, if he had not been carried away so often on long 
journeys still, and burdened while at home with practical 
difficulties, how eagerly he would have gone on widen- 
ing and deepening his knowledge with every advancing 
year! 

But the financial situation was far from satisfactory. 
The plan had been to raise $300,000 in Kentucky for 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 271 

endowment, and $200,000 in other States. For reasons 
heretofore explained, it was found necessary to make the 
removal to Louisville before either of these amounts had 
been fully subscribed. The annual expenses were unavoid- 
ably increased by removal to a large city. The students 
themselves lived more cheaply than before, but the rent of 
the hotel occupied by them, and of the rooms necessary for 
instruction and library, cost heavily. House-rent must 
also be provided foor the professors who had families. 
Several agents had to be snpportecl, who were occupied in 
efforts to complete the subscription of endowment, and to 
collect the annual payments already due. Those a^^ts 
must necessarily be men of more than ordinary ability and 
influence, with good salaries, and their wide travelling 
added no little to the expense. Meantime, many of the 
payments due for endowment had not been made. Some 
persons thought the Seminary was now successfully estab- 
lished at Louisville, and all would be well, so that they 
need not incommode themselves about prompt payment. 
It would be useless to attempt, searching out, and in fact 
no one but Dr. Boyce ever knew, the great variety of dif- 
ficulties and objections that stood in the way of payment. 
Thus it was impossible in the first years at Louisville to 
get such a sum invested as would yield anything like an 
adequate income. There were a good many outstanding 
five-year bonds for annual support still unpaid, but they 
also were in not a few cases hard to collect. Moreover, as 
Dr. Boyce had settled down to teaching again, and could 
seldom spare time for long journeys and personal applica- 
tions, many persons took for granted that things were 
somehow getting on well enough. He still worked hard in 
vacation. Thus, in June, 1879, he and Dr. Broadus can- 
vassed the city of Richmond. He was just up from a bad 
attack of gout, and weakened by the medicine that relieved 
it, so that we had to ride about; yet he was full of energy 
and courtesy, making earnest and persevering appeals to 



272 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

all who could be reached. But the work as a whole went 
on slowly. It became impossible to avoid using a portion 
of the funds designed for endowment in providing for the 
annual support of professors and agents. This is always 
a painful necessity for persons devoted to the establishment 
of a new enterprise. Dr. Boyce felt it keenly, deplored 
it, but nothing else seemed possible. 

So it came to pass that in the third session at Louis- 
ville, when Dr. Manly had returned, and Dr. Boyce had 
been formally reappointed Professor of Systematic The- 
ology, and the way seemed open for happy work and 
growing prosperity, it became apparent to his business eye 
that financially the Seminary was going to ruin. The 
salaries were inadequate, and could not possibly be lowered. 
The faculty had been cut down to four professors again 
after the death of Dr. Williams, and some of them were 
gravely burdened with their work. The agents were 
indispensable, and so much of the money coming in had to 
be used for expenses that there seemed no reasonable hope 
of investing an adequate endowment. About the end of 
the year 1879 Dr. Boyce explained this situation to his 
colleagues. The Seminary could struggle on in that 
fashion for several years, but the generous donors would 
assuredly have a right to complain if their gifts were used 
up for current expenses. He saw no hope of effecting a 
permanent endowment unless some person could be found 
to give a new impetus to the whole movement by person- 
ally contributing $50,000 for the endowment of a chair. 
He definitely proposed that the professors should make 
special and frequent prayer that God would raise up some 
one able and willing to give the $50,000. At a meeting 
of the Missionary Society, which includes all the students, 
he asked them to join in this special prayer for what he 
represented as in his judgment the only thing that could 
provide for the Seminary's permanent existence and large 
usefulness. He spoke with deep feeling: his heart was 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 273 

evidently set on the idea, and on the particular sum named. 
He sent a few lines to two or three Baptist papers, express- 
ing the hope and prayer that God would put it into some- 
body's heart to make this gift. He would talk about it 
when meeting any one of the professors, and they would 
consider whether perhaps this or that person might prove 
to be the one. ** Man's extremity is God's opportunity." 
He had done all that seemed possible in other ways^ and 
could see no way out but this. 

It can never be forgotten with what a radiant and yet 
tearful face he came a few weeks later into a colleague's 
study, holding out an open letter, and saying, ^'Here is 
the answer to our prayer. '^ The letter was from Hon. 
Joseph E. Brown, of Georgia, Ex-Governor and United 
States Senator. It stated that he had for some time been 
considering the propriety of making a large gift to some 
institution of higher education. He had wished that one 
of his sons might feel called into the ministry; and as that 
apparently could not be, he felt all the more moved to help 
educate the sons of others for that work. He had seen 
Dr. Boyce's brief note in the *^ Index," and would be glad 
to have him arrange a visit to Atlanta at his expense, and 
explain the exact financial situation and prospects of the 
Seminary, so that he might decide whether it would be 
safe and wise to invest in its endowment. Within a few 
days Boyce had gone and returned, bringing the $50,000 
in cash and first-class securities. Ah, was not that an 
answer to prayer? For years Providence had been leading 
the man and the movement, and now Providence had 
brought them together. The gift was made Feb. 11, 1880. 

Kow the question was how to secure other gifts, which, 
united with the funds already invested, would yield the 
income necessary. At this point Mr. George W. Norton, 
of Louisville, took the matter in hand, bringing to bear 
upon it his extraordinary business talent. He and his 
excellent brother and partner in private banking, Mr. 

18 



274 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

William F. Norton, had already made generous gifts for 
the Seminary. The point was to give more in such a way 
as might insure its speedily obtaining at least $200,000 
of invested funds. Mr. Norton suggested an amendment 
to the charter, requiring that the principal of all contribu- 
tions for endowment made since Feb. 1, 1880, be held 
forever sacred and inviolate, only the income to be expended, 
— and if any part of the principal were used for expenses, 
then the whole should revert to the donors, — and that a 
Financial Board of five business men in Louisville should 
be elected every year to invest the principal, hold the 
securities, and pay over the income to the Treasurer of the 
Seminary. Mr. Norton's idea was that no Treasurer or 
Board of Trustees would be sure always to resist the pres- 
sure of urgent need, and it was necessary to arrange so 
that the principal absolutely could not be drawn upon for 
expenses. Such an amendment to the charter passed the 
Legislature of Kentucky, and was approved March 31, 
1880. Thereupon the Messrs. Norton offered to give each 
a very generous sum towards the proposed $200,000. New 
heart was at once put into the Seminary's more devoted 
friends, and Dr. Boyce began fresh efforts, as far as the 
pressing duties of a teacher would possibly allow, to obtain 
new gifts and collect outstanding obligations. One of 
the professors had done a good deal of summer preaching 
in New York and vicinity, and now went to seek contribu- 
tions in that city. The result, after anxious and prolonged 
effort, was a subscription of nearly $40,000, all duly paid, 
«.t' course, except about one fourth, prevented by a business 
failure. These generous gifts of several noble men and 
women in New York were another special providence in the 
Seminary's time of peril. In the course of some two years 
the proposed $200,000 was received and invested, and the 
institution was no longer in danger of perishing, though 
a much larger endowment must of course be earnestly 
sought, and through the toiling years Dr. Boyce continued 
to seek it. 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 275 

For several years the number of students was between 
ninety and a hundred. This made it a laborious task to 
correct the written exercises necessary in the Hebrew and 
Greek classes, and still more to deal with the written exer- 
cises in Homiletics. Besides, the health of Professor 
Whitsitt had been seriously' impaired by the too heavy 
burden of teaching Ecclesiastical History, and at the same 
time Biblical Introduction and Polemic Theology. The 
treasury could not afford another professor. The Trustees 
authorized the Faculty to appoint for the session 1881-1882 
an assistant instructor in Hebrew, Greek, and Homiletics. 
The choice fell on Rev. George W. Riggan, of Virginia, a 
Master of Arts of Richmond College, and a Full Graduate 
of the Seminary's previous session. His conspicuous abili- 
ties, and enthusiasm in learning and teaching, made him 
a very valuable helper, and he grew rapidly in power and 
influence till his early death a few years later. After two 
years he was advanced to be assistant-professor, and on 
Oct. 1, 1883, delivered a vigorous and suggestive inau- 
gural address on ''The Preacher's Adaptation to his Intel- 
lectual Environment." Through having Mr. Riggan's 
help in teaching Hebrew, Dr. Manly was able to resume 
the school of Biblical Introduction, which he had taught 
up to the time of leaving the Seminary in 1871 ; thus Dr. 
Whitsitt also was considerably relieved, and after some 
years his health greatly improved. 

The addition to the teaching force came in good time, 
for in the session 1882-1883 the number of students rose to 
one hundred and twenty-five, — the largest previous number 
having been ninety-six. Then it fell off somewhat for sev- 
eral years; but in 1886-1887 was again one hundred and 
twenty-five, and in 1887-1888 rose to one hundred and fifty- 
seven. Dr. Boyce believed in that last session during 
which he was present that the number would go on increas- 
ing, as it has done. 

But the increasing number of students only rendered 



276 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

more manifest the need of buildings, since the rent of a 
sufficiently large hotel and other adjacent rooms was cost- 
ing more and more. The amount invested did not yield 
enough to support the Faculty and other officials, to say 
nothing of agents. Large sums were outstanding in old 
bonds for annual support; but what could be collected upon 
these seldom amounted to more than enough to meet the 
deficiency in the account for annual expenses. Every now 
and then, Dr. Boyce would grow thoroughly indignant at 
the failure of many persons to make annual payments for 
which they had given their solemn pledge and their legal 
obligations. During the session 1882-1883 he made up his 
mind tliat such persons ought to be sued at law. He wrote 
a long letter to one of the agents at that time in the field, 
setting forth reasons why he thought this ought to be done. 
Dr. Boyce had a high sense of commercial honor. He did 
not at all sympathize with the old-time negligent fashion 
of many planters and farmers, buying on twelve months' 
credit, settling then if convenient, but feeling that a gen- 
tleman ought not to be harassed about pecuniary obliga- 
tions which he did not at the time find it convenient to 
meet. The son of Ker Boyce had all the instincts, convic- 
tions, and sentiments of a merchant, with whom failure to 
pay a debt was almost like stealing. It seemed to him an 
outrage that persons who had given him a bond would 
coolly go on neglecting to pay it, though reminded again 
and again. Nobody can question that the widespread 
practice of pledging contributions to religious objects, and 
then failing to pay, with little regret and no feeling of 
shame, is a very great evil. Dr. Boyce had taken pains 
to put contributions into the form of notes payable in 
bank, always inserting the name of some particular bank 
indicated by the contributor. To neglect meeting such 
obligations at maturity, unless really impossible, seemed 
to him a point of personal dishonor. So he obtained 
authority from the Board of Trustees to collect these bonds 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 277 

by process of law, and sent large quantities of them to 
lawyers, in different parts of the Southern country, with 
directions to bring suit if they could not otherwise collect. 
This course led to great complaint on the part of some 
persons who had given the bonds. Their point of view, 
on the score of custom, wa^ entirely different from his, and 
it is probable that each party did the other some injustice. 
However invested with the forms of legal obligation, and 
of banking exactness and punctuality, the donors remem- 
bered that all this was really a promised gift; and if they 
found payment inconvenient, some of them regarded legal 
proceedings as offensive and unjust. There were those 
among Dr. Boyce's most intimate associates who always 
considered his course in this matter a mistake of judg- 
ment. Similar efforts to collect by legal process have 
been made in the history of several institutions, and they 
appear to have generally awakened an irritation, if not 
hostility, among givers, which more than counterbalanced 
the financial gain. Yet no one who knew Dr. Boyce can 
ever have questioned for a moment that the measures 
adopted were in his estimation thoroughly just to others, 
and required of him by his official duty. And let us not 
turn away from the subject without remembering how sur- 
passingly important it is to cure, by all judicious repre- 
sentations, the practice of making pledges for benevolent 
objects, and neglecting to pay. 

It was probably in the session of 1883-1884 that Dr. 
Boyce began to look around for a suitable location in which 
Seminary buildings might be erected. A committee of 
fifteen had been appointed by the Trustees, consisting 
of the Faculty and a number of leading business men 
of Louisville, to decide upon the best location. Many 
thought, very naturally, that it would be wise to place 
the Seminary a few miles out, where one or two hundred 
acres of ground could be purchased for a moderate sum, 
and when the city should grow out and around, this land 



278 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

would make the institution wealthy, as has taken place in 
the history of Columbia College, New York, and several 
other institutions. A majority of the committee favored 
the choice of some such location for the Seminary, while 
others urged very important reasons for preferring to place 
it in the heart of the city. Here it would be frequently 
observed by its friends, would seem near to them, and thus 
more readily command their liberal support. Here the 
students would not form a community apart, but would 
attend the city churches and Sunday-schools, and easily 
visit in the city families, to their gre&t benefit in various 
ways; and being near the railway stations, they could 
much more easily strike out on Saturday afternoon to 
preach at churches in every direction, and returning on 
the early trains of Monday, go promptly to the lecture- 
rooms. Some of us were alarmed at the idea of banishing 
the Seminary from all these present advantages for the 
sake of a possible financial gain in the far future. In point 
of fact the honored brethren w^ho favored an outside loca- 
tion could never agree in opinion as to whether we should 
go out to the east, or the south, or the west, it being quite 
difficult to foresee in which direction the city would most 
surely and rapidly grow. The matter hung fire for many 
months. At length Dr. Boyce ascertained that some lots 
in the heart of the city, on Broadway between Fourth and 
Fifth Avenues, could be purchased. Then by judicious 
inquiry he learned that other lots nearly adjacent, fronting 
on Fifth Street, might also be bought. Getting the con- 
sent of the committee, he quietly purchased these lots 
from their various owners at moderate rates, explaining to 
his associates how they could be combined into adequate 
grounds for the Seminary. This process settled the ques- 
tion of location ; and the wisdom and business tact with 
which he had carried the matter through commanded the 
hearty approval and admiration of the business men on the 
committee. 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 279 

But sufficient land in that central location was going to 
cost more than fifty thousand dollars. Part of it must be 
paid at once, and other sums must be collected within a 
year or two, while still the endowment was far from ade- 
quate, and the annual expenses hard to meet. Everybody 
agreed that the lot was exceedingly well chosen. A prom- 
inent owner of real estate in the city, to whom it was one 
day pointed out, and whose wife was a Baptist, said em- 
phatically, ** Why, Dr. j you have the best lot for 

a public building in the city of Louisville; and I '11 give 
you five hundred dollars to help pay for it.'' One of the 
most eminent Baptists in the city, known to be very wise 
in his management of real estate, who had never favored 
the removal of the Seminary to Louisville, and had never 
contributed to its support, because doubtful as to the wis- 
dom of theological education as distinct from college 
education, was yet so pleased with the selection of the 
location that he spontaneously proffered a thousand dollars 
towards paying the cost. Several generous friends, who 
had already contributed largely, took hold again to meet 
this purchase. But still the money was hard to ob- 
tain, and Boyce's soul was often bowed down by financial 
burdens and anxieties. In June, 1884, he wrote to Dr. 
Broadus (who was preaching in Brooklyn) with reference 
to some small proposed expenditure : — 

" Besides, we are going to be hard run. I intended to warn 
you lest you should purchase any hooks for the Library this sum- 
mer. I am anxious to cut down Seminary expenses. ... I have 
yet made little progress further than when you left. The churches 
are burdened with all manner of appeals. I tell you I fear the 
people will begin to feel that the preachers and their projects are 
nuisances." 

Yet this was the man whom some people represented as 
fairly loving to beg for money! A few weeks later he 
wrote an earnest appeal to his friend William F. Norton, 



280 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Esq. (who was temporarily out of town), to start him with 
twenty-five hundred dollars towards the twenty thousand 
he had to raise for payment on the lots. 

" Getting this sum is really going to be fearful work ; yet it is 
necessary to get it, if possible. If I can do this, then the hope of 
buildings at no distant future may be reasonably entertained. 
Without it, I do not beUeve I shall ever see the day when these 
buildings can be completed. I do wish before I dip to see the 
Seminary fully equipped and at work. For this I have spent my 
whole Ufe thus far, and am willing to spend the remainder if I 
can attain the end. But my heart often sinks within me at the 
difficulties to be overcome. My faith in the enterprise fails. I 
begin to think I must leave it incomplete, for some other man to 
finish. Oh that I could get my brethren to see its possibilities for 
good, with an ample endowment ! I know it could do ten times its 
present wi.>rk.** 

He goes on to explain that the time has arrived for 
making the titles to the lots, and the payments due are 
indispensable. ^^The matter presses, and I am in de- 
spair. Sometimes I am right sick that I should ever have 
allowed myself to be caught in such a scrape. '^ Alas! the 
great heart scarcely able at times to bear its burden; 
the noble powers prematurely wearing out through finan- 
cial exertions and anxieties, constantly hindering the work 
he so longed to do as student and teacher and author. 

There were kind friends to help forward his exertions, 
not only in Louisville, but elsewhere in the State and 
country. In November he wrote to Mrs. Governor Robin- 
son, of Georgetown, Ky., thanking her for a contribution, 
and added : *^I know not how the Seminary could ever have 
been established without the kind help of the women of 
our churches ; and among them I count no two more ear- 
nest and self-sacrificing than yourself and Mrs. Thomas. 
I trust we shall have the pleasure of seeing you here soon. 
I should like to show you the beautiful location we have 
secured for our buildings." So we see it is secured, and 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 281 

it is beautifuL But much of the purchase-money was still 
to be obtained. 

Within the next year or two the beloved Dr. Edward 
Judson preached a number of days in Louisville^ at the 
Broadway Baptist Church, and became acquainted with 
our Theological Seminary, and interested in its struggles 
and possibilities. On returning to New York he spoke 
warmly on the subject to one and another, — particularly 
to Mr. John D. Rockefeller. Some time later, Mr. J. A. 
Bostwick passed this way with some other great railroad 
men, and while driving round in Louisville, a Methodist 
gentleman, Mr. Carter, pointed out the lots which the 
Baptist Seminary had purchased, and spoke kindly of the 
institution. Afterwards Mr. Bostwick called on Mr. G. 
W. Norton, talking with him about railroads and about 
the Seminary. These several occurrences suggested tliat 
it might be possible to get help in New York for the 
erection of a building. A professor who was by this time 
pretty well acquainted in New York went again to seek 
such aid. Telegraphing was at that time remarkably 
cheap, especially for night despatches, and Dr. Boyce 
proposed constant communication. 

The sum desired was sixty thousand dollars. Mr. 
Bostwick, at the first interview, agreed to give fifteen 
thousand. Upon being told of this the same day, Mr. 
John D. Rockefeller cheerily added twenty-five thousand. 
So next morning Br. Boyce knew that two thirds of the 
amount had been given, but more than half on condition 
(Mr. Bostwick being averse to conditional gifts) that 
Boyce should at once raise money enough to finish pay- 
ing for the land. It was an unpleasant day in Louisville, 
but he turned out, lame from a recent attack of gout, 
saw the Nortons and Mr. Theodore Harris and others, 
and telegraphed that night that he had the money in cash 
promises, — nearly thirty thousand, — ^"but on condition 
that the remaining twenty thousand for the building 



282 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

should be raised in !N'ew York. Sie laboTy hoe opus. It 
took nearly three weeks. Many an attempt failed, others 
dragged, others brought but little. Hope deferred made 
the heart sick. But one could almost hear Boyce's ringing 
voice and merry laugh as he would telegraph, night after 
night : ** Don't think of coming back without it. Nobody 
wants to see you here. Stay all winter, if necessary." 
Slowly, slowly! A telegram of twenty words was only 
costing fifteen cents. Boyce knew every important failure 
or success, and kept exhorting. Several who thought at 
first they could not help, yet consented to take hold to 
save a friend from defeat, and a good enterprise from 
foundering in sight of land. Blessings on all the gen- 
erous givers and wise counsellors ! But for them, and but 
for Boyce's cheery telegrams, the movement would have 
proved a failure. Let no one think it easy to obtain large 
contributions in the great cities. Many applications must 
necessarily be rejected. Wise and conscientious givers 
must know what they are doing. If through personal 
acquaintance and varied information they are satisfied 
that here is a really promising enterprise, well managed^ 
and heartily supported by friends right around it, why, 
then they may give, — or they may not; for nobody can 
be always giving, and every one must judge for himself. 

When it was announced that sixty thousand dollars had 
been contributed in New York to erect a building for the 
Seminary, Senator Brown, of Georgia, who had endowed 
the professorship, spontaneously sent five thousand for the 
building. New York Hall, as it was named, really cost 
nearly eighty thousand dollars. It furnishes dormitories 
for about two hundred students (two in a room), with a 
beautiful dining-room and an ample culinary department, 
and also professors' ofiices and lecture-rooms, so arranged 
that they could in future be converted into dormitories 
whenever other buildings should be erected. There is 
also an admirable gymnasium. Dr. Manly and some 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 283 

honored Baptist laymen gave much time and thought to 
the duties of a building committee. May New York Hall . 
long continue to remind the successive generations of stu- 
dents that the Seminary was greatly aided in its early 
days by generous gifts from tKe great metropolis. 

In the course of these busy years as student and 
teacher, and these toilsome and ever-renewed exertions to 
establish the Seminary's finances, Dr. Boyce was in 
other ways also quite useful as a citizen of Louisville. 
He became a director in the Louisville Banking Com- 
pany, which the President, Mr. Theodore Harris, has 
built up into the largest establishment of the kind in this 
part of the country; and his wise counsels as a business 
man were greatly valued in that and other enterprises. 
Again, as in former years, he had inviting offers to high 
business positions in his native State. One invitation was 
to become president of a bank in Charleston, — the one 
over which his father had so long presided, — with a salary 
of seven thousand dollars. During the same year he was 
asked to become president of the Graniteville Cotton Fac- 
tory, near Aiken, S. C, in which his father's estate had 
stock, with a salary of twelve thousand dollars. He might 
have been pastor of his mother's church in Charleston, or 
of some church in Augusta, doing much good, and having 
ample opportunity to recover all that he had lost by the war; 
yet he declined both offers so quietly that few of even his in- 
timate friends ever heard of them. A year or two later, one 
of Boyce's colleagues was riding in a buggy with a friend 
in the Blue-grass, who remarked, ^* Folks in our neighbor- 
hood think that your Seminary professors get entirely too 
big salaries." The other, in reply, mentioned the above 
two offers, and asked what his folks would think of Boyce's 
having declined such invitations. The old gentleman said, s 

with great naivete, '*0h, they wouldn't believe a word of %l 

it." A good many well-meaning people think that min- ^ 

isters are always ready to go where they can have a laiiger 



284 IfEMOIB OF JAMES F. BOTCK 

salary, and little do they know of tlie invitations often 
declined. 

Dr. Boyce was a Trustee of the Slater Fnnd, from its 
original establishment, — a fund now exceeding a million, 
the income of which is to be used perpetually for the pro- 
motion of higher .education among the colored people of 
the South. His practical wisdom and life-long interest in 
the negroes admirably adapted him to this position, and 
he greatly enjoyed the annual meetings of the Trustees, a 
distinguished body of gentlemen. 

In the Broadway Baptist Church of LouisTille, Dr. Boyce 
was a very earnest, faithful, and useful member. For some 
years he taught a large Bible class in the church at the 
Sunday-school hour, composed of students and many other 
persons, and took much pains to prepare the lessons, 
which became really lectures to quite a considerable con- 
gregation. He of course gave a very hearty support in 
every sense to the pastor and other officers, as a resident 
minister who is not a pastor ought always to do. On one 
occasion he thought it his duty to oppose earnestly the 
wishes of the beloved pastor. Dr. J. L. Burrows. A highly 
esteemed gentleman, whose father had been a Baptist, had 
himself been baptized by a Christian (Campbellite) min- 
ister, and after a good many years wished to join the 
Broadway Baptist church, but did not wish to be now 
baptized. Dr. Burrows was disposed to receive him upon 
his former baptism, as a good many brethren would do, in 
some parts of the country. Dr. Boyce resisted this, steadily 
and successfully, and took pains in many ways to show at 
the same time his hearty good feeling towards the pastor, 
who in turn acted with characteristic magnanimity.^ Some 
years later, the honored gentleman in question was received 
into another Baptist church of the city, and baptized. 

^ ThiB noble, eloquent, and widely osefol minister died in January, 
1893. 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOITISVILLE. 285 

In 1885, April 14tli, Dr. Boyce and his colleagues were 
greatly saddened by the death of Assistant-Professor Rig- 
gan, who had now been their colleague for nearly four 
years. His remarkable ability, his splendid zeal as a 
student and a teacher, with the purity and unselfishness 
of ]iis character, had greatly endeared him to professors 
and students. In the Blue-grass church of which he had 
been pastor for some years, there were intelligent persons 
who thought him the ablest preacher they had ever heard. 
His sermons often contained an amount of profound thought 
and closely linked argument which most people would not 
have listened to but for the kindling enthusiasm with 
which he spoke. His memory will long continue to be 
an inspiration. One of the Full Graduates of that session, 
and previously a graduate of Howard College, Rev. John 
B. Sampey, of Alabama, was appointed assistant instructor 
for the next session; and as the increasing number of stu- 
dents kept demanding additional help, Rev. A. T. Robert- 
son, of North Carolina, also a Full Graduate, and a Wake 
Forest man, was appointed two years later. Each of them, 
after two years of service, was advanced to be assistant- 
professor, the former in Old Testament and Homiletics, 
and the latter in New Testament and Homiletics. Unable 
to appoint additional full professors, through lack of means 
for support, the Seminary was exceedingly fortunate in 
securing young men of rare ability and rich promise. 

In 1885 Dr. Boyce was cheered by a bequest from D. A. 
Chenault, Esq., of Madison County, Ky., of $15,000, the 
interest of which was to be used for helping to pay the 
personal expenses of needy students. A like bequest of 
$10,000 was made by W. F. Norton, Esq., of Louisville, 
who died in 1886. These generous gifts made a permanent 
and highly valuable addition to the Seminary's financial 
strength at a point of constantly increasing pressure; but 
this did not relieve Dr. Boyce's solicitude as to procuring 
additional endowment for the support of the instruction. 



286 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

In all the latter part of his life, as we have heretofore 
noticed, he was so burdened with the business of the Sem- 
inary, as well as the care of his father's estate, that his 
correspondence was mainly restricted to business letters. 
Yet in the copies preserved in letter-books appear many 
letters to his sisters and his nieces, — often accompanying 
birthday gifts, — apt to be quite entertaining, and sure to 
overflow with simple and earnest expressions of personal 
affection. Some of these letters, or extracts from them, 
may now be given : — 

To his SistCTf Mrs, Bitrckmyer, Jan. 13, 1880. 

Thank you for the book ; it is very nice. Every now and 
then, yesterday afternoon, while I was answering some letters in 
my wife's room, F. would exclaim, " This is so good I '' " How 
nice this is!" " How beautifully this is executed! " etc., etc., as 
she looked over the pictures of the book, which, after looking at 
it awhile, I had to lay aside because of necessary work. When I 
had simply said, ** The homes of England," F. said at once, " * The 
stately homes of England,' is by Mrs. Hemans." You see she is 
somewhat informed in literature. The fact is, the young folks are 
getting ahead of me. I was badly caught last night. Hearing 
L. referring to Green's ** History of the English People," which 
the women-folks had been reading until they came to Harold^ and 
then stopped at my wife's suggestion to read Bulwer's "Harold*" 
and hearing her speak of Beda, I said, ** Bede " (one syllable). 
She said it was Baeda in the book, and I laughed at her, thinking 
she had been carried off by mispronunciation, and said, " Well, 
bring me a place where it is spelled Bceda, and I will give you a 
quarter." In five minutes she came with Green, and I had the 
quarter to pay. You see the love of the extreme old is leading 
even historians to take Latin names for their English equivalents. 
You will see some of these days, when the encyclopaedias begin 
to mention your brother, that he will figure as Boethins, or 
Boecius. But the learning of the day is getting ahead of us old 
folks. I have long had to stop trying to teach grammar to the 
children. The names of moods and tenses and cases, etc., etc., 
and the characteristics of various parts of speech and the relations 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 287 

between them, are to-day desiguated by such extra scientific terms 
that I cannot talk with them. Think of my being thus caught 
on the Venerable Bede, and through the instrumentality of one as 
*' green ^ as that historian ! The girls all laughed at me because 
I had made so extravagant an offer, for they said L. would have 
worked an hour for the chance of making ten cents. L. is the 
financier and banker of the family. It is said that her purse is 
like the widow's cruse of oil. Put a dollar in it, and she will be the 
extravagant purchaser of all she wishes, will have loaned to every 
one some part of that dollar, and yet, with all her loans outstand- 
ing and her purchased possessions on hand, she will have her 
dollar still. F., on the other hand, will not spend, but puts away 
her money, often in unknown places ; yet when demanded she 
has nothing to show, — has spent nothing, has given away noth- 
ing, has loaned nothing, and still has nothing. It is well that L.'s 
honesty is established, or the open mouths of astonishment which 
these two sets of developments cause in the family would break 
forth into fearful accusations. 

But what a ra«e a wild pen will lead one, if he give it flight I 
Well enough this would have been in the days when pens were 
feathers, and could be presumed capable of developing **airy 
trifles ; ^ but that an old st^el pen should thus fly off into sparks 
would seem impossible until you realized that it has come into 
contact with an old flint rock like me. Seriously, however, I do 
thank you heartily for the book, but greatly more rejoice in my 
knowledge of the love which has prompted it, and the good wishes 
as to my birthday which accompanied it. 

To Mrs. BmcJcmyer, Oct. Uj 1880. 

I thought a great deal of you on the 14th (your birthday), and 
asked many blessings upon you. God bless you, my own dear 
sister ! I always did love you dearly. There has been a peculiar 
drawing of us two together, and it has extended to my wife. 
During these later years of your deep sorrow — in which 1 so 
strongly sympathize with you, and in which I was also so deeply 
afflicted — I have felt that I must come to you in my own place, 
and also as far as possible in that of your dear husband. And I 
have learned that my love for you was not so great as could be, 
from the fa<5t that it is daily increasing. I could not, but for this 



1 1 had thought no 

ived joQ. Would 

fcftfc worthy to pray 

3 know how much 
' do Dot suffer, as 

hjgfcglyof me, fori 

ni^SI'f S' '^^'^^ ^ t"^7 ^"^ 
£fw SO'^^"'^'^ think with 
BjJ|lUffftg|f us btothera aad 

^,_H H^JS^.flwUSPr WiBimyer a long de- 

'■Ti^ifiS^iSlt^«i«J^luthority of the 

Sf Chestnut and 
PI the widow of 




I woDtler how 

I^BDot to say sisters, 

" e to OTerflowing ; 

|vag&ud loved for him- 

8 I do. I think 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 



289 



one reason why we ought to love the Lord so much is because we 
Ivoow as well as he does how unprofitable we ai-e, and that we 
are loved, not even for what we are, but shnply because we are 
his. It is so delightful to be owned. There is at least that 
pleasure in being a slave, and I think our slaves of old felt this, 
and a great nearness it made between them and their masters and 
mistresses. I know I have never been able to love my best hired 
servants as I did my more indifferent ones whom I owned. I 
think it is not so with the hired ones ; that until long service makes 
such an indissoluble attachment that in a sense they seem to be- 
long to us like our children and reUtivea, we never learn to love 
them as much as we may. 

But I must not make a homily of my letter. The books will 
probably be here to-day or to-morrow. I have not yet bought 
Hayne^s poems, and so I shall have the pleasure of reading them 
as your gift to me. 

I see you are to have the Princess Louise in Charleston for the 
winter. Well, of one thing I am sure, that, though poor, and 
not now capable of showing the hospitality and courtesy of the 
past, Charleston is, of all the places in the country, that in which 
she will find that people know how to treat a royal princess, with 
honor and respect due to her station, and without any vulgar 
toadyism. I trust that through the British consul she will fall 
into the right hands. It is funny that she should have asked 
whether Charleston is safe. It is as bad as two years ago when she 
declined in the fall to come through Louisville for fear of yellow 
fever. I wonder if any of our educated ladies would ask for a 
military escort to go to Dublin, or fear to visit London, lest they 
should have the leprosy ; yet probably we are as ignorant of Mexi- 
can matters as the English of America. The Star of Empire goes 
westward ; but still it is always eastward that our eyes are directed 
with especial interest and knowledge. Is this an evidence of 
blindness, or of want of foresight! 

To Miss Charlotte B, Holmes,'^ Jan. 10, 1883. 

I received your card to-day, and your mother's and your grand- 
mother's books, and as you are the smallest of the three, I write 

1 Granddaughter of Mrs. Burckmyer. - 

19 



290 MEMOUl OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

to tell yoa so, and to get you to tell them. Take care they do 
nut find it out before you tell them. I am glad you like the book 
I sent you, and the jointed doll. By it you will fiud that all 
children are good in their places ; even ugly ones may not be 
stiflf- necked, and may have active legs and arms. Then you will 
find that the jointed doll cannot cry, nor roll its eyes about, nor 
get its hair rumpled, nor break its nose, nor lose its earrings, as 
some dolls can. Perhaps you can find out some other excellent 
qualities in it before I see you. To-morrow is Uncle Jimmy^s 
birthday. He will be fifty years old. How many times is that 
older than you ? Find out, and tell me when 1 see you. 

To Miss Charlotte B. Holmes^ Jan, 22, 1883. 

You must get mamma to make you understand that a grand- 
niece, instead of being larger than only a niece, is apt to be much 
smaller. Your mamma is only my niece, and you are the grand- 
niece. I am afraid to try to explain, unless I could talk with you 
and hear your dear little questions, and find out just what you 
would wish to know about it. . . . We are having such cold 
weather here as you never see in Charleston. Tell grandma that 
the thermometer last night was below zero. She wOl know how 
cold that is. Yet we have a heap of fun. The little children 
run out and slide on the ice all along the sidewalk, and every day 
I see them goin? out to the big pond with skates in their hands, 
to skate upon the ice. Then we have had ever so much snow, 
and the ground has been as white as iced cakes for a week at a 
time. The big river is not yet frozen over, but sometimes it is, 
and the people can walk or drive over on the ice from one side to 
the other. Do you think you would like to see the water frozen 
from the Battery away over to the opposite shore of the island, 
and the people driving carriages over, as they do in the streets of 
Charleston I Some of these days, when you get large enough, 
you must come and see all thes? and other sights which you can- 
not see in Charleston. But you must not think this is a nicer place 
to live in than Charleston. Your Aunt Lizzie is groaning over the 
prospect that when the pit is opened after this cold spell, all her 
flowers will be frozen up and killed. We can't have them here 
as you have in Charleston. . . . Don't you think grand-uncle 
suits your big Uncle Jimmy! 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOULSVILLE. 291 

To Miss Charlotte B. Holmes, December 21. 

Your Dice letter of December 18 was received this morning. I 
am very glad you are so pleased with your little watch. It was 
the prettiest of the kind I could get in Chattanooga, but not near 
so pretty as I should have liked to have it. Your mamrna guesses 
right. The lesson is punctuality, which I think one of the most 
important lessons in life. Add to that, promptness to move and 
act at once, not to dawdle and wait to be told several times. It 
also teaches when to go to bed, so that you will not need to have 
mamma urge you. One thing else : Be careful with the watch ^ 
don^t wind it up, or move the hands, except when necessary; use 
the watch, but don't abuse it. I shall see when next I meet you 
what good care you have taken of it. I should not have given it 
unless I had thought you would take good care of it 

We may add two or three specimens of the numerous 
kindly letters he wrote to namesakes. 

To Master B. Boyee Criven (of Kehttucky), Jan, 10, 1883. 

My dear little Namesake, — I received your nice little 
card and letter. The letter was very nicely written. I fear you 
have begun too well. A few years from now, I am afraid the hand- 
writing will not be so good, nor the letter so elegant in its lan- 
guage. But do not fear to write me because of that. I shall love 
the little things you may say, and the crooked letters in which 
you will write them. I want you to be a good man first, and then 
a wise one. To be either, you must begin while you are young. 
Try to be good, and when old enough study very hard. 

To Boyce Broadus^ Dec, 25, 1884. 

My dear little Frirnd, — Many thanks for your kind 
remembrance of me, and for your presents, — the one so beauti- 
ful and fragrant, and the other so useful. I shall wear the former 
to-day in my coat, and hope that my little friend is all day as 
happy as his love to me has made me; and the other I shall 
use every day for a long time, and every day think of the kind 



292 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

thougbtfulness you have shown. God bless you, my dear boy, 
aud give you every kind of happiness now and evermore. 

We turn to specimens of tlie letters he wrote to former 
students who were living far away as foreign missionaries. 
The following was written April 6, 1883, to Rev. P. A. 
EuBAXKy Baptist Mission House, Lagos, West Africa ; 

I am sitting at my desk in my lecture-room, conducting the 
Final examination in Church Government, and my mind naturally 
reverts to my pupils of last year. I therefore have taken the 
letter you wrote the Missionary Society, Sept. 25, 1882, and shall 
proceed to answer some of the questions you put in it. 

Probably some of the students have already written you that 
we have decided to forward the money contributed at one of our 
mission Sunday-schools in the city — the one with which you 
labored — to the Board at Richmond, for the special purpose of a 
training-school in Yoruba. And now as to your questions. 

1. '* There is no church at Abbeokuta: should the Lord's 
Supper be administered to the people who have been baptized, 
and then identified themselves with the mission f " My reply is. 
Yes. But this needs some explanation. (1) If there are several 
persons at Abbeokuta, why cannot a church be formed f The 
building, the pastor, the deacons, are not essential to a church, 
but only two or three members. If you say that there is no one 
capable there of conducting worship, and therefore no use for a 
church, I ask. Are there not persons there who can pray together, 
who can form a social meeting, and who can watch over each 
other ? If so, why not have a church ? Look into the New Testa- 
ment alone, without prejudice from present custom, and see if it 
is not the fact that the Apostles formed their new converts into 
churches, or even more likely that a number of these together 
became thus a church by virtue of being the only persons in 
the place who had become disciples where there had been none 
before. (2) If for any reason the perscms at Abbeokuta can have 
no church there, and such a church may seem to those of yon who 
are present not to be essential, the persons there baptized should 
become members of some other church, aud that church can have 
the ordinance of the Lord's Supper administered to its members at 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 293 

Abbeokuta as well as at the more general home, by simply resolv- 
ing that the said church will hold a meeting at Abbeokuta and 
partake of the Lord's Supper, which of course will only be done 
by those who are there. (3) Any doubts as to such questions are 
to be determined in favor of the most extensive privileges being 
given. As a matter of course, when we are practically certain a 
thing should or should not be done, we must follow that certainty. 
But when we cannot decide whether a privilege should be given 
or not, we are bound, I think, to grant it. This is on the prin- 
ciple our Lord laid down with reference to the Sabbath, when he 
said, ^' The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the 
Sabbath." Why should brethren be deprived all their lives of 
the blessing of partaking in remembrance of him according to 
his commandment, because they live at such a distance from a 
church as to make this impracticable? Would it not seem, in the 
absence of any provision of Christ by which this exigency may be 
met, that our decision should be that it is better that Christ's com- 
mand to eat the bread and drink the wine should be obeyed, even 
without an assembly for that purpose of a constituted church, 
than that we should stickle for the partaking of it in this way, 
which we infer to be right, and that to such an extent as to 
prevent obedience to the command ? And most of all, does it not 
seem that our Lord, when he spoke of the two or three, intended 
to show that of so small a number even as this could a church bo, 
and therefore that there need never be a celebration of it otherwise 
than as a church, because so easily would that number be gath- 
ered wherever there are disciples. Is not the essential idea of the 
administration of the Lord's Supper rather the idea that it is 
not a private meal, which any one can partake of at any time, 
and thus overlook Christ's relation to his people as a collected 
body, and not individual members only, than that it is a regular 
church meal, which can only be partaken of by a church in regular 
session f In other words, is not the point to prevent individual 
partaking, rather than to secure a union of the brethren in the 
partaking f 

Question 2. *' Is it right to baptize a believer with a view to 
his becoming a member of a church not yet organized ? " 

Answer, certainly. Did not the Apostles do this constantly I 
Your doubt arises from the common practice among churches at 



294 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

home, where churches are oonvenieut, and where the consultatino 
as to whether a person shall he haptized, takes place before the 
baptism. This finds an Apostolic example in the case of Come- 
lias. Bat the authority of the minister to baptize without consul- 
tation with the church is seen in the baptism of the eunuch by 
Philip. If the brethren are present who propose to enter into the 
proposed new church , I should consult them as to the baptism ; but 
if none are present, I should baptize at once, without consultation. 
This I believe was the universal custom of Apostolic days. 

Your third question seems to me to raise issues which can only 
be settled in each individual case. You refer to the refusal to 
testify against each other from fear, and to the case of a woman 
who terrified a church by saying she had come to see who would 
raise a hand against her. I see no other way to do in each case, 
however, than to instruct in the truth, and to use moral suasion. 
What else ctm you do I You have no authority over a church. 
You can only exercise influence through the esteem they have for 
you, and use effective moral suasion by the power of your words. 
But I think, in general, the other members should be warned not 
to allow superstitious fear to keep them from doing right; and 
this offending woman should be taught that there is nothing in 
becoming or being a Christian where there is no genuine religion. 
Why should she wish to be in the church at all ? I think all you 
can do is to follow Apostolic precepts, — watch, warn, exhort, 
rebuke, always recognizing the authority of the church and its 
independence, and exercising in your own person no right, real or 
pretended, by which you would attempt to rule. 

Your fourth and fifth questions I will answer together. '' Should 
converted polygamists be received into the church without being 
required to give up their wives, except one f If we receive poly- 
gamists, and thus have some in the church, what should be 
done with a member who takes a plurality of wives after being 
received ? " 

I think this matter may be arranged if you will follow what I 
think was the plan in Apostolic days. (1) Christ was outspoken 
as to the necessity of monogamy. (2) So likewise, so far as they are 
known to us to have spoken, were the Apostles. These two facts 
settle, therefore, the Christian opinion on the subject. (3) But 
Christianity, unlike Judaism, always interprets law with regard to 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 295 

a merciful dispensation of it. Consequently, when persons were 
found with more than one wife, they were (a) duubtless admitted 
to membership, (b) but with such teaching as showed that poly- 
gamy, though tolerated, was only tolerated from mercy towards 
those already married, where the annulling of the marriage relation 
of any one or more of the wives would be cruel and unjust to her. 

(c) This would be accompanied, not by a stigma upon those thus 
placed, but by some evidence that their position was undesirable. 

(d) This is found in the requirement that the offices of the church 
should be confined to those who have one wife only. '* A bishop 
must be the husband of one wife.'' 

Now, it seems to me that such action would settle the ques- 
tions you ask. You will show from it that polygamy was dis- 
countenanced, was allowed because of peculiar facts, and yet 
blamed so far as to become a disqualification, aud consequently 
that it is not possible that polygamy should have been allowed 
to take place by a man's adding to one or more existing 
wives. 

To your sixth question, as to the judgment of moral questions 
according to the Bible, or with regard to the moral weakness of 
the heathen, I reply : (1) That we ought not to lower the standard 
of instruction on moral questions. These should be set forth in 
all their beauty and elevated character. (2) That we should be 
tender and merciful in their application. While we teach rigidly 
what Scripture teaches, and thus raise up the banner aloft, we 
should yet recognize the low standard with which these have 
been familiar, and make allowance in dealing with them. '' A 
bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall 
he not quench." Our Lord's treatment of the woman taken in 
adultery is a lesson of such treatment, even when the standard of 
moral teaching was not low, but highly elevated. 

I shall not ask your pardon for my long letter, because I have 
tried to meet your own wishes. It has been a pleasure to me to 
state thus briefly such points as I hope may either give satisfac- 
tion, or set you to thinking, and perhaps lead to the attainment of 
wiser conclusions. 

We have had a prosperous session. We have regularly ma- 
triculated 117 students, and have had in addition two who left before 
matriculation, besides three or four others who have attended lee- 






both of whom will 

yiia know, and the 

'will recotntneDd tn 

October, inateiul 



ifABijaarte in foreign lands 



Sl^/ttt J^'m/l^^tmMmmM^eaae give my best 

.gut** 'tt'w -?-?•?• 

j:^«©i§Jf; 'gl^isirg-^prae. 1883. 

rs* in A M ** i* -^ASi 

f^llri^|gr||d|^^^£^jg|r letter ofOct<.bcr 

"^^ n «m B0(^iC9 M<Ott>iidBof yourself and 

|l?!J«"Bti». intending to write 

^ ~— .»...~.^_ _JiifA'Al^P|tlBine leisure moment. 

?'^^3s?'3S''.''3S'J^^*SP^&"'S*'''^ "'' idleness am 

''« £>l4^^>^^S^M^I'S^IB"i<!h uverburdeui'd 

"""" ™ " ■ ""' ' 'inetimea 1 feel like 

t tn; professorship 

^ that I cannot do su 

lall, as yon know, 

Last year we 

* one handred 

go to ChioK as 

I Morris. Only 

a meeting next 

Bonrd at Rich- 

highly, — a 

: last year's 

^his city. Our stu- 

missionary spirit - 

na last year, and 

. number are con- 

ees of interest and 

.when we shall send 

Italy and South 




IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 297 

America. Our missionary meetings are held monthly, as when 
you were here, and are full of interest. The ladies in the various 
churches here are active in the Woman's Mission to Woman work, 
and I think are doing iimch good, more especially as they seem to 
be very judicious and modest. I had the pleasure of reading the 
secretary's report of the society connected with Broadway Baptist 
Church, because the lady said she could not rise before a mixed 
audience and read it. I told her I so much admired such modesty 
and true womanliness that I could not refuse, aud would read any 
number of papers for such societies upon those conditions. 

The churches here are all raising money for city purposes, 
— Broadway to pay off a debt of $15,000, and the other churches 
to help Dr. Weaver, and East Church, Green's old place. The 
Seminary Missionary Society is also doing a large work in this 
city, for which the funds are given by members of city Baptist 
churches. The students have engaged in this with great zeal. 
It was begun two years ago last November, and has constantly 
developed, until we now have about one thousand children in eight 
mission Sunday-schools. 



To Beo. W. S. Walker f Shanghai j China j Bee, 1, 1888. 

Will it be too late for congratulations when my letter arrives ? 
If not, please accept them for youreelf, and present them for me to 
your wife. My dear fellow, I am so glad that you are married, 
and especially that you have a wife so sweet and amiable as I see 
she must be, from the photograph of her you sent Dr. Manly. I 
don't think you would have done as well at home, had Dr. Tupper 
and the Foreign Board given you three months longer to find 
one. I was greatly relieved that you did not get a wife in that 
way, and that you have obtained one in the way of natural (I 
don't mean Darwin) selection. You have always had a very dear 
place in my heart, and I shall always look at your work with very 
peculiar interest. May God continue to bless you greatly in it ! 
Your wife, I understand, is a sister of Dr. Mateer, the senior 
missionary of the Presbyterian mission at Tungchow. I under- 
stand that to marry you, she had to begin to twist her mouth to a 
new dialect. I did not know before that such wry faces must be 



298 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

made in swallowiug my old pupil. I judge, howeveri from what I 
have heard of her brother, that she, if like him, is capable of all 
things. . • . You heard last year of our increased numbers. We 
shall do as well this year. There are already one hundred and 
four students. Our classes are doubly as large as when you were 
here. The students are a noble set of young men, — some not so 
very young, — and every year we see that we are producing an 
effect which cannot be measured, upon the South. There never was 
so much missionary spirit in the Seminary, never so much in the 
churches at large. I do not venture to attribute all of this, under 
God, to the Seminary; I know that other causes are at work. 
But I know that the Seminary has been a potent factor in the 
past, and must be still more so in the future. . . . We hope to 
send you other men from time to time, to help you brethren 
abroad, in China, in Africa, in Mexico, in Brazil. The more we 
send, the more we shall find ourselves able to send, — consecrated 
men, of devoted piety, filled with the missionary spirit, and as well 
cultivated and educated, especially in theological and Biblical 
lore. The more we send from the Seminary, the more will the 
other students be filled with zeal for missions, and the more will 
their churches give; and as these increase in giving, they will 
become still more willing to give, not money only, but men. The 
fact is, I believe we have begun a round of spiritual power which 
will be like a whirlwind, and will gain force as it goes, sweeping 
forward with resistless power unto the end of the world, — that is, 
if we shall prove faithful. God keep us so ; for all force will soon 
be at an end, unless He help. 

I trust your own work becomes increasingly interesting, as day 
after day passes, and you grow better able to preach the blessed 
gospel to the perishing. We have felt much troubled at the 
dangers to w^hich our brethren at Canton have been exposed, aud 
we have not known whether or no there was any possibility of 
danger at other points, but supposed that there was. In such peril 
our hearts go out towards all of you with much apprehension, 
which is only allayed by our faith that the heart of Jesus also 
goes out in like manner, with greatly more tenderness. It is well 
for all of us always to remember that the commission was con- 
nected by a ** therefore " with the " all power " intrusted to his 
hands. He then can take care of his own cause. . . . Blessed be 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 299 

God, we can get into no situation in which we may not have the 
sympathizing pity and prayers of Jesus i 

Give my hest regards to Dr. Yates. I wish I could once more 
see him. His sympathy for my work here has heen a great 
consolation, his opinion of its value a very great and constant 
encouragement. I helieve he is justified in his belief as to the 
value of the Seminary to Foreign Missions; but it is a great 
pleasure to know that this is his faith. 



To Bev. M, T. Yates, D.D,, Shangliaij China, Jan. 10, 1884. 

Yours of November 21 received. ... I trust what you have 
written to Herring and the " Recorder '' and T upper may be effec- 
tual to prevent any such idea from controlling the going-out of 
missionaries as would dispense with the most thorough education 
possible. I am very sure that all should be thoroughly educated, 
although I know what good work men have done without such 
opportunities. You may be sure that we shall do all that we can 
in this direction. While we are devoutly attached to the cause 
of missions, — indeed, because we are thus attached, — we would 
not increase the number of missionaries by an addition of incompe- 
tent men. I had rather send out men defective in physical than in 
mental strength. I trust if you have not known before, you know, 
through what Brother Walker can tell you, how much of the 
missionary spirit pervades our institution. If we cannot overcome 
the tendency of many to remain at home, we do at least destroy 
all auti-missicmaryism, and build up such genuine interest as will 
give the mission cause some chance to have its claims presented 
before all the churches these students will serve. I believe, indeed, 
that thus there will be awakened a true spirit everywhere. How 
otherwise than through our work can it now be accounted for that 
South Carolina, in its present condition of comparatively deep 
poverty, so far excels what it did for missions in the days of its 
wealth ? In Kentucky we have a soil to work upon not so long 
nor so well cultivated as that of South Carolina was when we 
began in 1859. But I venture to say that here also we shall do, 
with the help of God, a great work ; and as fast as we can get hold 
of the students of the Southern States, or others, you will see a 



300 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

revolution. Had I the use of a million of dollars to-day, I could 
in twenty-five years make this whole Southern country so full of 
missionary Baptists that unless the devil could devise some other 
means of weakening or retarding the kingdom of God, we should 
support thousands of missionaries. Had I such a sum, or the 
half of it, I would from its annual interest support all who would 
attend the Seminary and needed help, and I would send out agents 
to '^ compeP' them to come in, and have one thousand students 
here each year. But, after all, all in God's good time. I think 
we ought to say this, in contentmentj relying on him ; while in 
discontent, as long as the work is not done, we should bend every 
effort towards it with all the means we have. I am deeply grate- 
ful for the interest you have taken in our work. Pray for us. 

We add the following miscellaneous letters : — 

To Professor John L. Lincoln, LL,D,f Brown University ^ 

Jan, 2, 1885. 

Your letter from Charleston, S. C, was indeed a surprise, but 
none could be more pleasant. It delights me to know that you 
have been in the old city so dear to me as my boyhood's home. I 
only regret that I was not there with you, for there is so much 
that is not only characteristic, but quaint and worthy of special 
notice, about the city, and which is not apt to be seen in a hurried 
visit, that I wish you had had some native guide, and above all I 
wish for the pleasure it would have given me to be your guide. I 
am especially pleased to know that while there you remembered 
me, and to such an extent as to be moved to write me your kind 
letter. The four of us who were under your charge on the same 
floor with yourself while I was in college, were always your 
admirers, not merely as our Latin professor, but chiefly as our 
friendly monitor and guardian. And I confess that one of the 
chief pleasures of my life has been the friendship of my former 
instructors at Brown. Your letter therefore has brought me 
more than ordinary pleasure. I read it with much pride to my 
wife and daughters, who seemed also fully to appreciate your 
kind greetings. 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 301 



Bev, G, H, Toy, D.D., Harvard University j April 28, 1885. 

I have received your kind letter of the 25th, sympathizing with 
us in the loss of Dr. Riggan. He died on the 18th, about 11 
A. M. His disease was meningitis. He had really worked him- 
self down ; and this, with the recent loss of his child, had put him 
in a bad condition for an attack. He was sick about twelve days, 
the immediate cause being over-fatigue in preaching, and riding 
three miles after it at night, when he had been thrown by preach- 
ing into a profuse perspiration. His symptoms were at first like 
those of typhoid fever, but afterwards so developed meuingitis as to 
leave no doubt about the disease. His loss is a sad one to us. 
He was doing well, and we looked forward naturally to a long 
and useful life. Nevertheless, God knows what is best, and does 
what he wills. 

From a Letter to Bev. W, T. Lowrey^ of Mississippi, 

April 28, 1885. 

I thank you for your quotation from Brother Trotter, and for 
your own kind expressions. It is very pleasant to know that I 
have the affection of my pupils. I often fear that it must be 
otherwise; and such words as you wrote are worth to me far more 
than you can imagine. 

To William E, Bodge,^ Esq,, New York City, Sept 21, 1885. 

Yours of 17th received. The copies of Dr. Mayors address were 
also received. I have carefully read the address, and am obliged 
to you for sending it to me, and I will give the extra copies to 
various parties who will appreciate them. I think the South 
indebted to him for his candor and kindness, and to you for your 
liberality in printing and distributing the address. I do not think 
he fully appreciates the efforts for common school education which 
were made in the South prior to 1860; they were much more 
extensive and successful than has been generally supposed. 

1 He and Dr. Boyce were together on the Board of Trustees of the 
Slater Fund. 



302 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Unquestionably they were not what they should have been, nor 
are they now what they ought to be. They were also confined 
to the white race. Yet I know that in many, and I believe in all 
the Southern States, appropriations were annually made for free 
education, or to supplement what was privately done by payment 
for free scholars on the part of the State. The present system 
also has not proved an unmixed blessing ; for while more ample 
provision is now made for the masses, it has destroyed the 
. numerous private schools by which good education was then 
afforded the better classes. Pardon my mentioning these facts, 
I know you wish the truth ; and I say these things in full appre- 
ciation of the advantages of common schools, which will remedy 
these evils when they are brought to the perfection existing at 
the North. 

The following extracts will illustrate Dr. Boyce's nps 
and downs about the Seminary: — 

To John A, Broadus, July 20, 1885. 

I confess I get sick at heart when I see brethren so unwilling 
to help, and so perfectly indifferent to the position in which they 
leave me^ I am like a man sinking in a quagmire or quicksand, 
and seeing others to whom he cries for help walking off quietly to 
eat their supper. 

To his Sister f Mrs. Mary C. Lane, of New York, Nov. 8, 1886. 

I find on my return that my friend William P. Norton, one of 
our most liberal contributors, and whose death is a great loss to 
us all, left $10,000 in his will to aid indigent students for the 
ministry in our Seminary. Only last spring he gave us $7,500 
to pay off our debt for the land, his brother giving us $10,000 at 
the same time.^ 

1 They had both also given liberally for the endowment. Since 
Dr. Boyce's death the two Norton families have expended $60,000 in 
erecting a large and handsome building for lecture-rooms and offices, 
which the Faculty have named Norton Hall. 



IN THE SEMINARY AT LOUISVILLE. 303 

To a Baptist Minister in Kentucky ^ Nov. 5, 1886. 

Yours received. I regret very much to have to decliue answer- 
ing your question. I should be glad to furuish you uiy opinion on 
the subject, but for the fact that I have made it an invariable rule 
never to give an opinion even on the simplest subjects where they 
have been made a matter of discussion in a church or among its 
members. I do not in any sense think that we are to be governed 
by what is called " baptistic," but only by the New Testament 
rules, and that Baptist usages are only matters of convenience 
and opinion when universal, and not opposed to the Scriptures. I 
should always follow Baptist usages where the New Testament 
was not opposed to them. The great difficulty in doing so, how- 
ever, is to find out what Baptist usage is. In some places and 
some ages it differs from other places and other ages. All the 
advice I can give you is to go by the New Testament always, 
Baptist usage to the contrary notwithstanding. But when there 
is nothing in the New Testament bearing upon a case, follow 
the usage, unless other circumstances make it unwise to do so. 
Baptist usage has only the power of an opinion; the New 
Testament's direction or usage is law. 

In concluding this chapter, we may state as the full 
conviction of Dr. Bo.yce and his colleagues, after years of 
experience, that a Theological Seminary gains greatly 
from being established in a large city, and at a central 
point in the city. And Louisville has proved a highly 
satisfactory location. It is easy of access, a growing city, 
with the Baptists numerous and rapidly increasing, and 
all friends of the Seminary. More than half of the stu- 
dents are occupied every Sunday as teachers in Mission 
Sunday-schools or as preachers, and quite a large propor- 
tion of them have some pastoral charge in the city, or 
among the churches of Kentucky and Indiana, within a 
hundred miles. A few may neglect their studies for such 
preaching, but in general it contributes to prepare them 
for future usefulness. 



304 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 



CHAPTER XVL 

PUBLISHED AND UNPUBLISHED WRITINGS. 

WE have already spoken (chap, ix.) of Dr. Boyce's 
** Three Changes in Theological Institutions,'' — 
an address which produced very notable results, because it 
interpreted to Southern Baptists one of their profoundest 
wants, and because it was backed by the convictions and 
energies of a man capable of bringing something to 
pass. 

About 1872 he issued *^A Brief Catechism of Bible 
Doctrine." This was published first in Memphis by the 
Sunday-school Board of the Southern Baptist Convention, 
the Board established during the war, and removed from 
Greenville to Memphis. This Board not long after ceased 
to exist. In 1878 a revised edition of the Catechisn^was 
published in Louisville by Caperton & Cates. It con- 
sists of twenty short lessons, full of instruction for the 
young. It was the author's ^' desire to promote catecheti- 
cal instruction in the family and Sunday-school." The 
attempt was made *^ to simplify, as far as possible, with- 
out sacrificing important truth." It is an excellent little 
work, which has been a good deal used, and deserves to be 
used very widely. 

Dr. Boyce's chief publication was his ^'Abstract of 
Systematic Theology," printed for the use of his class in 
1882, and revised and enlarged for publication in 1887. 
His text-book in the general or English class of Systematic 
Theology had for the ten first years of the Seminary's 
operations been Dick's Theology, gradually substituting 
for this or that portion a lecture of his own. When 



PUBLISHED AND UNPUBLISHED WRITINGS. 306 

Dr. Charles Hodge's great work appeared, in 1872, Boyce 
hailed it with delight, — so broadly comprehensive, com- 
plete at all points, surpassingly able and satisfactory, and 
expressing the consummate life-work of his own revered 
teacher. Though the three large octavos made a treatise 
too extensive for his method of instruction, he imme- 
diately introduced it as a text-book, — of course select- 
ing, and still substituting his own dictated lectures at 
various points. He would doubtless have continued to use 
this great work. But the next year Dr. Williams became 
Professor of Systematic Theology, and preferred to take 
simply Dick as the basis of his own course of lectures. 
When Boyce resumed the subject, in 1887-1888, he tried 
Van Oosterzee's ** Christian Dogmatics" for one year; 
but it proved somewhat cumbrous, and not very strong 
or inspiring. Then for two years he used Dr. Hovey's 
** Manual of Systematic Theology and Christian Ethics." 
This he found to be a clear, sound, and vigorous book, 
but designed to serve only as the basis of fuller discussion 
in a course of lectures ; while Boj^ce wanted a more ana- 
lytical and complete treatment, to be recited by the students 
in his peculiar method. In 1880-1882 he used A. A. 
Hodge's " Outlines of Theology," which appeared in 1860, 
and an enlarged edition in 1878. This excellent volume 
was based on his father's instruction, but everywhere 
shows independent thought and decided ability. Here 
also, however, there was a lack of adaptation to the pre- 
cise wants of Dr. Boyce's class. Having accumulated a 
good many lectures, which he had been giving at various 
points, he finally undertook to prepare a work of his own 
which should be suited to his lecture-room wants, — a 
work comprehensive, but analytical and condensed, pre- 
senting all the points necessary to a complete discussion 
of every subject, but usually in a brief statement, while 
elaborating where it seemed specially requisite. His 
duties as Chairman of the Faculty, and all the heavy bur- 

20 



306 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

den of meeting the Seminary's annual expenses, and toil- 
ing to secure adequate endowment and buildings, occupied 
so much of his time and energies that he could not carry 
the work through as completely as he desired, and as rap- 
idly as was necessary. So, in 1882, he printed one hun- 
dred and fifty copies of his existing lectures, and such 
others as he could prepare. This volume of lectures was 
not published, but used exclusively as a text-book for his 
class. It contained 514 octavo pages, and, though hur- 
riedly brought out, proved for the next five years well 
adapted to its design. The classes, however, were steadily 
increasing in number; and being anxious to re-work the 
book thoroughly before publishing, he began to purchase 
back the copies which had been furnished to students, in 
order to keep the class supplied year after year. 

Meantime he went on with studies looking to the re- 
vision and enlargement of his Abstract. But the financial 
and other business distractions were very serious. He was 
also working much at the course in Church Government, 
wishing to make a complete exhibition of the Boman 
Catholic and leading Protestant forms of church organiza- 
tion and government, and to discuss the principal creeds, 
using Dr. Schaff's book and many others. Dr. Boyce's 
study of any subject was sure to be planned on a large 
scale, and pushed with great resolution. Before he was 
ready to publish the matured and completed '^Abstract of 
Theology," th^ increasing number of students demanded 
more copies than he could recover of the unpublished 
volume. Moreover, his health showed marked signs of 
decline. So, in 1886-1887, he carefully revised, and in 
many parts re-wrote, the existing work. Enlarging upon 
some subjects, he condensed elsewhere, so as to keep the 
volume within about the same compass as before, and not 
too large for his course of instruction, embracing about 
one hundred lessons. The work received his closest 
attention. Every paragraph was the result of life-long 



PUBLISHED AND UNPUBLISHED WRITINGS. 307 

studies, now faithfully renewed, and the treatise presents 
his mature convictions. But some parts of the volume 
were written down rapidly, though after long thought, 
and so the sentences are not always clear. Yet the reader 
who will consider with some patience need never doubt as 
to what is meant, and he finds the thought itself to be in 
a very high degree clear and strong. The work was pub- 
lished in Baltimore in 1887 (H. M. Wharton «fe Co.), and 
is now published by the American Baptist Publication 
Society, Philadelphia. 

Dr. Boyce omits several important topics which are 
often embraced in treatises on Systematic Theology, be- 
cause in this Seminary those subjects are taught in other 
departments. Thus, Canon and Inspiration are taught in 
the school of Biblical Introduction, Church Constitution 
and Ordinances in the school of Church Government and 
in that of Polemic Theology. His work could therefore 
devote itself entirely to the statement, discussion, and 
defence of the doctrinal contents of Scripture. 

Like his preceptor, Charles Hodge, Dr. Boyce was 
much influenced as to general method by the great treatise 
of Turrettin, which he was teaching every year to his 
smaller class in ** Latin Theology." But, like Dr. Hodge 
again, he based everything upon laborious collection and 
conscientious examination of Scripture passages. No one 
better knew that the theologian and the exegetical student 
are interdependent. His colleague who was Professor of 
the New Testament once said to him, in some pleasantries 
of conversation, that students of exegesis might have 
some freedom if it were not for these dreadful theological 
people, who know beforehand what every passage ought to 
mean, in order to suit their creeds and systems, and who 
have not a proper respect for philology and criticism. 
Boyce replied that a student of theology might have some 
peace if it were not for these dreadful teachers of exegesis 
and all sorts of criticism, who are constantly snapping up 



308 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

his favorite proof texts, and declaring that this is not the 
correct reading, or that is not the correct translation. 
Yet, of course, the systematic arrangement of revealed 
truth is constantly dependent on the critical and exegeti- 
cal study of the inspired writings ; while the uncertainties 
of exegesis and criticism may often be quieted — and its 
over-confident wanderings should often be restrained — by 
a due regard to the general teachings of Scripture upon, 
the question involved. 

The chief emphasis in this work is laid on the doctrine 
of God rather than on that of Man. Much that some 
theologians would treat exclusively under the doctrine of 
Man is here presented, or the way prepared for it, in the 
doctrine of the divine nature, attributes, and purposes. 
Thus the book is truly a Theology, in the strict sense of 
the term. Besides, the later portions, on Man, were more 
rapidly written, and therefore less full than they might 
have otherwise been made. 

We give extracts from two notices which this work 
received at the time. The *' Standard '' of Chicago, a 
singularly able and judicious paper, points out carefully 
and correctly the peculiarities of the work, as designed 
for a text-book in class instruction, and as omitting cer- 
tain subjects commonly included in theological treatises. 
It then proceeds as follows : — 

'^We find the book, as respects its specific purpose, deserving 
of high praise. It does not attempt too much, yet aims at 
and accomplishes enough. Its analysis, in the case of each topic, 
is remarkably helpful, alike for the studeut and for the general 
reader. In statement, in argument, in the expanding of the thought, 
where this is called for, there is great clearness. We judge that 
it may be taken in hand by the student, by the pastor, or the 
general reader, and made available for theological instruction 
in a way to be a most effective guide in all the great matters 
included. 

** As a theologian Dr. Boyce is not afraid to be found * in the old 



PUBLISHED AND UNPUBLISHED WRITINGS. 309 

paths.' He is conservative, and eminently Scriptural. He treats 
with great fairness those whose views upon various points dis- 
cussed he declines to accept, yet in his own teaching is decidedly 
Calvinistic, after the model of ' the old divines.' Difficulties, as 
connected with such doctrines as the Federal Headship of Adam, 
Election, and the Atonement, he aims to meet, evidently, not so 
as to silence the controversialist, but so as to help the honest 
iu(|uirer. We offer no opinion as to the correctness of his theo- 
logical opinions, this being beyond our province; but we have 
this to say, that the remarkable steadiness of the Baptist ministry 
and the Baptist churches, in this age of theological drift, is un- 
questionably due very much to the firm Scriptural attitude of our 
theology as taught in the theological schools, South, West, and 
East. 

** We take pleasure in expressing our very high appreciation in 
all respects of this very able work. If in a few cases we should 
prefer a different form of statement, we still hesitate to urge a pre- 
ference, where the criticism, if ventured, would imply difference 
from one who in his whole cast of mind is a theologian, and in his 
many years of service has proved himself entitled to rank with the 
eminent teachers of the land." 

Another remarkable commendation was given by " The 
Independent," of New York. This paper strongly objects 
to the theological views presented in the work, because 
they involve decided "Calvinism; " but this sets in con- 
trast the strong statement of its merits as a text-book. 

** For the purpose of a teacher, it is an admirable piece of work, 
compact, well-arranged, and with a good critical statement of the 
various forms of doctrinal opinion under each topic. The whole 
is done in a clear, strong, and manly way, with no evasion of diffi- 
culties, no sentimental coloring or softening, but everywhere bold, 
honest thinking, expressed in plain, vigorous, and excellent 
English. Young men drilled in such a manual, and theological 
students in any grade who bend their minds to the task of master- 
ing it, will have here a robust and fundamental schooling that 
must invigorate their philosophy, even if subsequent thinking is 
to introduce great modifications into the theological system learned 
from it." 



310 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

The critic then proceeds to object to the book as Calvi- 
nistic, but in so doing says : — 

'' There is a great deal of close, strong thinking and keen the- 
ological criticism in the chapters on the Atonement, Election, 
Beprobation, and particularly applied to the question of the Ex- 
tent of the Atonement. . . . We doubt if the Calvinistic doctrines 
of Election and Reprobation can be put better than they are in 
this volume." 

Dr. Boyce's work is, indeed^ as these newspaper notices 
have said, thoroughly in accord with the system of the- 
ological opinion commonly called Calvinism. This is 
believed by many of us to be really the teaching of the 
Apostle Paul, as elaborated by Augustine, and systema- 
tized and defended by Calvin. It is a body of truth that 
compels men to think, — in itself a great advantage. The 
objections to it are believed to grow out of either misappre- 
hension, or misapplication through wrong inferences. Men 
assume predestination and election, and then deny human 
freedom and responsibility; or they "assume freedom and 
accountability, and then deny predestination and election, 
— in either case because they cannot fully reconcile these 
two sides of theological truth; thus making our capacity 
to harmonize things the limit of possible truth, and the 
criterion of Scripture interpretation. The world of matter 
is kept in equilibrium by the antagonism of physical forces, 
and the world of truth in like manner through countervail- 
ing facts and principles. Whatever theoretical position 
may be held, no truly devout man actually lives in practi- 
cal neglect of either divine sovereignty or human respon- 
sibility. The blindest "Hardshell," who has "no mes- 
sage to the unconverted," does not neglect to plough his 
corn; the most ultra and heated Arm inian believes in the 
doctrines of grace whenever he grows earnest in prayer. 

This "Abstract of Systematic Theology," designed as a 
text-book for classes, is in like manner well suited to care- 



PUBLISHED AND UNPUBLISHED WRITINGS. 311 

ful private study. Nothing is more useful to a thorough- 
going student than to take some first-class book on a great 
subject, and master it completely, chapter after chapter, 
paragraph by paragraph, so that he can state the exact line 
of thought in any portion to himself or to some patiently 
sympathetic friend. The writer remembers to have thus 
studied in his early ministerial life Butler's ''Analogy,'' 
McCosh on the "Divine Government," and several other 
works, and can see as he looks back how the thought of 
those great books went into his blood. The class-room 
presents great advantages; but through life a man must 
be his own teacher, his own pupil, and his own fellow- 
student, and bring all the energies of his being to bear 
upon the persistent effort to fill each of these positions 
worthily. Besides, the Abstract will be found quite con- 
venient for consultation when preparing sermons. If your 
text involves some doctrine, you may easily turn to the 
chapter treating that subject, and find its main thought 
separately and pointedly stated, so that you may readily 
seize upon the matters that are wanted. If now to Boyce's 
Abstract a minister will add such a copious work as Strong's 
'* Systematic Theology," he will possess a very admirable 
theological apparatus, — and both works from American 
Baptists. 

A volume ought to be published of Dr. Boyce's sermons 
and lectures. One of his most delightful practical sermons 
(heard twice by the writer) was on the text, " This man 
receiveth sinners " (Luke xv. 2), as illustrated by the 
three parables of the Lost Sheep, the Lost Coin, and the 
Lost Son. The difference in color of the light thrown by 
the three illustrations was depicted with delicate taste and 
deep feeling, and the practical impression was wholesome 
and powerful. Another of great interest was on " Behold, 
I stand at the door and knock" (Rev. iii. 20). It opens 
with a beautiful description, which represents a door long 
closed and rusted, overrun with weeds and cobwebs, while 



312 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

one stands before it and knocks; and the sermon well 
sustains the interest thus excited. In 1873 he prepared 
a sermon of uncommon vigor on "The Place and Power 
of Prayer '' (1 John v. 14, 15), suggested by the proposi- 
tion then familiarly known as " TyndalPs prayer-test," 
which became a favorite sensation with the newspapers, and 
was much talked about for several years. Some disciple 
of Tyndall had proposed that two patients suffering from 
the same disease should be treated in the same hospital, 
with exactly identical remedies and surroundings, and that 
one of these should be made the subject of widespread 
prayer for his recovery, while the other was not prayed for 
at all ; and the result would show whether prayer has any 
real eflBcacy. Of course no really devout and thoughtful 
Christian could join in applying such a test; for to experi- 
ment upon God's promises through a manufactured occa- 
sion is exactly what the Saviour was refusing to do when he 
quoted the words, "Thou shall not test the Lord thy 
God." Dr. Boyce did not dignify this fantastical propo- 
sition by any extended answer, but merely took it as the 
occasion for a thorough-going discussion of the topic indi- 
cated. Here his powers were at their best. His intellec- 
tual force was exerted in establishing and defending funda- 
mental truth, his interest in practical things was awakened 
by the practical issues raised, and his fervently devout 
feeling was deeply stirred by dwelling on the privilege 
and the duty of prayer; so that the whole man was fully 
enlisted. This is probably the foremost sermon to be 
found among his manuscripts. It was preached at various 
points throughout the Southern country, and a number 
of times in Louisville, being repeated by special request 
at Broadway and Walnut Street churches, and given also 
at Chestnut Street Church and at several Presbyterian 
churches; and it was spoken of by many as in a high 
degree satisfying and helpful. 

A number of other sermons may be found among the 



PUBLISHED AND UNPUBLISHED WRITINGS. 313 

manuscripts that would be read with decided interest and 
great profit. One is on The Unjust Steward (Luke xvi. 9) ; 
another on Mary the Mother of Jesus (Acts i. 14); and 
another on The Incarnate Word (John i. 14). There is a 
very pungent and solemn sermon on the Danger of Refusing 
the Son of God (Heb. xii. 25). One of special interest 
to ministers treats " The Value of a Complete and Accurate 
Knowledge of the Doctrines of Grace to the Successful 
Preaching of the Gospel '' (Titus iii. 4-8). Two of the 
latest sermons he wrote in full were for the Broadway 
Baptist Church in 1884, on John vi. 66-71, <*To whom 
shall we go ? Thou hast the words of eternal life." But 
there is a later, written for Broadway in 1886, on 1 John 
iii. 2. We have heretofore mentioned and quoted from the 
excellent funeral sermon on Dr. Basil Manly, Sr. 

Dr. Boyce's Lectures on Systematic Theology were of 
course mainly hicorporated in the published Abstract; 
but his earlier lectures on Polemics, and those in later 
years on Church Government and Pastoral Duties, present 
several of permanent interest and value. Especially no- 
table is the Lecture on Mormonism, and a popular Lecture 
given at a church on ''The Local Visible Ecclesia." 
Before a literary club at Greenville he read an Essay on 
Eve, as conceived and represented by the poets, which was 
extremely pleasing. Nothing interested him more than to 
ransack libraries on some particular theme, and bring 
together all that he thought valuable. Besides Milton 
and Mrs. Browning ('* Drama of Exile "), he found not a 
little in earlier and later- poets as to Eve, and exhibited 
and discussed the different poetical conceptions with 
much taste and feeling. One side of his gifts and culture 
is probably better shown in this Essay than in anything 
else that remains to us. 



314 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 

THE gout began to show itself as early asvlSTl, being 
inherited from his father. After curing an attack, 
through the powerful specifics employed (sometimes reliev- 
ing the pain within twenty-four hours), Dr. Boyce's vig- 
orous constitution would rally with wonderful quickness, 
and in a few days he would seem thoroughly well. It is 
frequently true in other cases as in his, that a person fleshy 
from childhood and through life is never a very large eater. 
Probably most of us eat too much, especially some who 
have bad digestion, and remain comparatively thin and 
even gaunt. Several years after the first attacks of gout, 
Dr. Boyce began to appreheud other and kindred disorders, 
and was induced to try some proposed means of reducing 
flesh, chiefly by avoiding certain kinds of food. Making 
a faithful trial of this for some time, he became satisfied 
that a reduction of general vigor was the only marked 
result, and returned to his ordinary simple and healthy 
diet. 

As the years went on, the attacks of gout became some- 
what more frequent, and there were increasing evidences 
of other disorder. In 1882. while working hard on the 
first (unpublished) issue of the "Abstract of Theology," 
and quite often during several months writing new sermons 
for the Broadway Church, — together with all the teaching 
and financial labors, — he began to suffer seriously. Once 
after a sermon he complained of a bewildered feeling in the 
head, and asked if he had said anything unsuitable ; for he 
did not quite know what he had been saying during the 



DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 316 

last minutes. This was evidently the result of overwork. 
During that period, and again in 1886, 1887 (while pre- 
paring his book for publication), he would often, for weeks 
in succession, begin work at five A. m., and continue, 
with variety, but no intermission, till eleven p. m., kept 
up by excitement and force of will, and not conscious at 
the time of any serious damage. He also suffered, as did 
Addison Alexander and Count Cavour, and other famous 
men of full habit and great mental labors, from lack of 
bodily exercise. After removing to Louisville in 1872, 
he never kept a carriage, and so did not have the exercise 
of driving, by which he frequently profited at Greenville. 
He had not learned to ride on horseback in youth, and 
never attempted it after the brief term of service as Chap- 
plain, and as Aide to the Governor. He walked with 
remarkable ease and grace for so heavy a man ; but it pretty 
soon fatigued him in these last years, and so he rarely 
walked except to lecture, or down street on business, or 
to market in the morning, — an early task in which he 
took special pleasure. He never tried gymnastic apparatus. 
The frequent railway trips required by Seminary affairs 
and private business afforded his only considerable means 
of exercise, and sometimes returned him in manifestly 
improved health; though in the later years such a journey 
was often followed by an attack of gout. 

The higher ranks of intellectual workers in our cities, 
including the great business men, now comprise many who 
need to make a business of taking exercise ; and if they 
only realized the need, and would make conscience of the 
matter and faithfully try experiments, every one might 
assuredly find means of regularly and amply exercising 
the muscles in some proportion to the exhausting and 
incessant strain he puts upon brain and nerves. The 
necessity of replacing the worn-out nerve and brain matter 
by new material derived from food, awakens appetite, and 
leads us to eat freely. Then, if there be a corresponding 



316 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

break-down of muscular and fatty tissue through exercise, 
the digested food is all usefully employed in replacing the 
different kinds of tissue; but without this, more food must 
be digested than the circulation can dispose of, and the 
result is either dyspepsia, as so many of us find, or gouty 
deposits in the joints, or excessive exertion and premature 
decay of the kidneys, or the like. We rrvust all learn to 
take ample muscular exercise every day, and a little walk- 
ing or driving is not enough. The hope for most city men 
of mentall}'^ laborious and anxious life is believed to lie 
in the use of exercising apparatus, at home or in a gym- 
nasium. Great improvements have been made in this 
respect within a few years. The gymnasium of to-day does 
not propose feats of strength or agility, but moderate 
exercise for all the most important muscles. Let us hope 
that *^ the athletic craze '' will prove to be only the excess 
accompanying a healthy tendency. Some regularly employ 
a succession of gymnastic movements, without any appa- 
ratus. The late Mr. George W. Norton, of Louisville, was 
convinced that he had prolonged his life several years 
through this practice, and similar cases are known else- 
where. One must of course add to indoor exercise such 
walks and rides and excursions into the country — for 
which the electric cars are becoming a great convenience 
— as will give fresh air and change of scene. The great 
trouble about the whole matter is that every one of us 
inclines to regard his case as peculiar, and to suppose that 
he does not need, or really has not opportunity for, such 
systematic daily exercise. There are, of course, constitu- 
tional differences, some men needing it less than others. 

When he became conscious of seriously disordered 
health, Dr. Boyce made every effort to retard the progress 
of disease, trying the Buffalo Lithia Water, and the Hot 
Springs, as well as specific medicines. He was both 
resolute and cheerful by nature, and was '^sustained and 
soothed by an unfaltering trust " in the Providence of his 
Heavenly Father. 



DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 317 

In May, 1887, he requested the Board of Trustees to 
appoint Rev. F. H. Kerfoot, D.D., as Co-Professor of 
Theology, proposing that they should divide the salary. 
His object was to have time during the next session for 
personal journeys in the interest of the endowment, and, 
a year later, for making his long-deferred trip to Europe. 
Dr. Kerfoot, a Virginian, and a graduate of the Columbian 
University at Washington city, became a student of the 
Seminary at Greenville in 1869-1870, and applied him- 
self laboriously and successfully to a full half of the 
course, with the hope of completing it in two years. After 
protracted meeting work in the summer, he returned the 
following autumn; but his health soon became seriously 
impaired, and it was necessary to quit. A year or two 
later he took the third year at Crozer Seminary, and 
was graduated. After this he spent about two years in 
the University of Leipzig and on a trip to Palestine. Re- 
turning, he was for some time Professor of German in 
Georgetown College, Ky., and pastor of two neighboring 
churches. When the Seminary was removed to Louis- 
ville, in 1877, the Faculty desired his accession as an 
assistant instructor, but yielded to the urgent appeal of 
friends in the Eutaw Place Baptist Church, Baltimore, who 
wished him as pastor. In that church, and, some years 
later, in the Strong Place Church, of Brooklyn, he had a 
highly useful pastoral career. This was interrupted by 
an accidental fall from a platform, leading ultimately to 
protracted lameness and nervous troubles; and, at length 
resigning the Strong Place pastorate, he returned, after 
a season of rest, to his old church at Midway, Ky., and 
entered the Seminary as a regular student for 1886-1887, 
doing all the class-work with thoroughness and relish, and 
taking his diplomas in the schools attended. And so it 
came to pass, in the course of Providence, that he was 
here to relieve Dr. Boyce's failing strength and to become 
his successor. Dr. Boyce's letters show that his plan was 



318 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

to let Dr. Kerfoot do all the teaching during the first 
three or four months of the session, while he should be on 
collecting journeys, and then to resume some of the classes 
himself. But in point of fact the business continued to 
press, and his health slowly failed, so that all the work 
was necessarily left to Kerfoot, and his own last teaching 
was done in the session of 1886-1887. 

Several letters may now be inserted. The first refers 
to his birthday. 

To Miss Nannie K. Lane, of New York, Jan, 15, 1887. 

Many thanks for your congratulations. ... 1 feel very young, 
indeed, except when the gout seizes upon me and fills me with 
despair. It is very pleasant to me to receive the many greetings 
I have had, though yours is the first from any of my nieces or 
nephews. I hope we shall see much more of each other this 
coming year. What a joy to me was that pleasant Sunday after- 
noon at the Bartholdi Hotel. God bless you, dear Nannie, for 
your great love to me. 

The two following show how he was painfully toil- 
ing on to complete and bring out his *' Abstract of 
Theology :" — 

To Messrs. H. M, Wharton dt Co., Baltimore, Jan, 24, 1887. 

I find the progress of my book very much impeded by my 
health, or rather want of health. I shall be forced to do one of 
two things, — proceed as best I may, and leave out much new 
matter I wish to introduce, or delay as long as necessary tQ com- 
plete what I wish. Sickness and the quantity of proof received 
and the pressure of engagements greatly hinder me. I had hoped 
to get the book out by May, but think better now to delay longer, 
as I shall not need it for my classes until October 1. 

To Hon, Joseph E, Brown, Atlanta, June 8, 1887. 

I am getting out a book on Systematic Theology, — a text- 
book for students. I write to ask your permission to dedicate it 



DECLIXIXG TEAKS AND DKATU. 319 

to you. It is the oalj waj I have erer liad of testifyiiig to my 
high esteem and afiecdoa Usr yoa, or of showing my gnuitade tur 
yoar many kiiidnesis<!S to my wvsky the Seminary. 1 trust yoa 
will allow me to so honor my bouk as in this humble way to oon> 
nect it with your name. 

The nert letter refers to a noble man, who bas been 
spoken of in a preirions chapter. 

To Mn, Ximrod Long, BusadltUltj Ky.j April 25, 1887. 

I retamed to the city this afternoon, and learned as I was ap- 
proaching it the sad news of the death ^*i yoor dear husband. I 
knew that his health was very f(heble, but did not think when I 
met all of you at Chattanooga that the end would come so soon. 
I sympathize with you very much in your affliction. I had 
learned to love him very warmly, as well as to esteem him very 
highly. He was an excellent man, full of zeal for God, and 
love for his brethren and his faith, and full of libendity and good 
works. I rejoice to know of his friendship for me, and have felt 
myself greatly honored by it. His loss to us all is very great, in 
many respects irreparable. To you and his children it must come 
home more sensibly than to any others. Ton have the joy of his 
intimate fellowship and strongest affections. I know somewhat 
from my own past afflictions how your hearts must be filled with 
anguish. But yet we grieve not as those who have no hope. We 
shall see him a^in where there will be no parting f«»rever. He 
has but gone before us to the blessed state of the righteous who 
die in the Lord. We too must soon follow. May we be as well 
prepared ! May it be to us as great a joy as is his ! May this 
hope of his happiness be a comfort to you, and may God be with 
you in your trial with his eomfor ing spirit of grace ! 

In June was held the fortieth anniversary of Dr. Boyce'a 
class in Brown University. He wrote in May to his dear 
friend Dr. Guild, expressing the hope that he could at- 
tend, but wrote again, on Jane 10, that he found it impos- 
sible, without travelling on Sunday, which he conld not 
do. He sent his "best love to each of the dear boys of 





h|^ A|lttfp{£y^^n^uT acknowledges 

^1t%ttlf9mi^^^^^aSf^^^esteTd&y, and the 

pS^Ail-.|pit'tA'^W)»kV^r? kind to me at 

' '^;!&^<i|%'firw<4 aTf H college, and tliuse 

'J^'IB^Kf-^^SfKIS^ anticipated wUh 

^Mt'm^SfW |u«r£^0*>'l'l ^ as highly 

_• V."^ •"Tffel'S«^j5C*.]iJp'®n»^eB revisit the cher- 
*ri/,e^>a^^ £'9V|^lQii.|^;^:^i;ig|L<^ be pleased when I 



,^mflt^^:^X., July 15, 18S7. 

the Year B.«.h of 

kiod afl to Bfnd. I 

mnch I prize thpse 

■en ding them. 

jtprepared, — a work 

ly awakens wonder 

h eonnected with 

1 have been bom 

every volanie of 

' "W" "S" "S" "S" 
•^.^i^ppSSfci Julj/ 4, 1887. 

^protracted ahsence. 

book of Dr. Josiak 

■»-.-!.— 't bpfore ansvrerinff 

'^'f^t'K^W^ the prppnriitlon of 

-J- ■*"»■■»• 




DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 321 

a text-book in Theology for my classes, which had to be completed 
before I could take any summer vacation. I finished it only 
last week, and hope now to get some rest, which I am sadly 
needing. 

I have read the book of Dr. Strong, ** Our Country," with 
much interest. It is very able, and presents an admirable col- 
lection and discussion of facts, for which he deserves the thanks 
of aU good citizens. In one respect, however, I think he has 
made a mistake, which is important in connection with the 
Catholic controversy. So far from any proportionate increase, 
there has been a decided proportionate decrease of Roman Catho- 
lics. Indeed, if the amount of additions by immigration be taken 
into account, the decline of Catholicism in this country should 
be appalling to them ; and but for the substitution of so much in- 
fidelity for it, would be a matter of congratulation to all Protestants 
and patriots. To arrive at this, take the population of 1776, and 
to that add the natural increase as shown by the general popula- 
tion, to that add the immigration of each ten years and its natural 
increase, and see what the figures would be. The Romanists 
should have had more than half the population. I speak mod- 
erately. I think it would be nearly three-fourths. But they have 
really to-day not more than one-tenth of the whole population. 
The mistake of Dr. Strong is in comparing the number which 
Roman Catholics give with that given by Protestants, when the 
latter number is that of the actual communicants of each denomi- 
nation, while the Romanists give that of all adherents. The 
number of communicants should be multiplied in each case by 
five, to give the number of adherents. The figures thus to be 
obtained will be confirmed by the tables taken in 1870 by the 
Government of the number of church sittings provided by each 
denomination. I made some figures about ten years since which 
lead me to say that out of the fifty^million inhabitants of the 
United States at that time, the Methodists and their adherents 
had twenty- five million, the Baptists fifteen million, other Pro- 
testants and Jews five mOlion, Romanists five million. I 
am satisfied that this small percentage comprises all there is 
of Romanists in our country. In confirmation, as I have sug- 
gested, take the reports in tie census of 1870 as to the sittings, 
or provision made for members of congregations. I only recol- 
lect at present Kentucky, and I have no means of access to 

21 



N 



322 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCfi. 

the tables. Bat in Kentacky the Baptists haye more than one 
half of the State, having somewhat more than all others, — 
Protestants, Jews, Catholics, and all else. If Dr. Strong had 
duly regarded the difference between the way in which the Catho- 
lics report members — counting as a matter of coarse all per- 
sons who are adherents of theirs — and that in which Protest- 
ants generally connt (I am sare Baptists do, and believe all of 
them do), namely, the actual communicants, his statement of 
facts would have been far otherwise. 

In July, 1887, he took his family on a pleasant journey 
of two or three months to California and Alaska. As 
to this tour, his eldest daughter has kindly consented to 
furnish some notes, which will at the same time illustrate 
certain traits of his character. 

" Father was a delightful travelling companion. He was so 
accustomed to moving about that he knew perfectly how to make 
himself and others comfortable. He delighted to have ladies in 
his charge. Their many truoks and bundles gave him no con- 
cern. He seemed to think it was only proper that they should be 
made comfortable. He always thought out his trips, and arranged 
everything so that the greatest enjoyment could be had with the 
least trouble. During the winter months he would make so many 
plans for the next summer's outing that we would be fairiy 
bewildered as to what we should really do. Of course a great 
deal of his travelling in the South was when raising money for 
the Seminary. He learned to eat anything that was put before 
him, and quite won the hearts of country people. 

" Having need of only four or five hours' sleep, he could accom- 
modate himself to any hour of rising, and an early country break- 
fast had no terrors for him. Considering how constantly he was 
on the cars, it was strange *hat he was never in any accident of 
any moment. He slept as peacefully in his berth as in his bed. 
Bemg very closely confined during the winter months, the sum- 
mer was always looked forward to by him as the time for rest and 
recreation. As soon as he could get away from his work, he would 
start with his family to mountains or sea-shore. There he would 
fairly revel in the lovely views and pure air and the pleasure of 
unlimited companionship with his family. The last years of his 



DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 323 

life his trips were more extended. In this his family tried to en- 
coui-age him, as it was felt that he should get so far from his home 
that business cares would perforce be too far away to be constantly 
troubling his mind. 

'^ In 1887 he went to California and Alaska. We all look back 
upon this trip as most satisfactory in many respects. He had 
begun to show signs of his health breaking down completely. 
Being overburdened and overworked, he really prolonged his lite 
by going so far from his home. No letters or papers reached him 
for weeks, and though he occasionally worried over this depri- 
vation,, on the whole it had an excellent e£fect upon him. He 
entered with ardor into the trip, enjoyed everything, and soon 
commenced to look like a different man. Our route was from 
Louisville to Kansas City, thence to Manitou, through the Ar- 
kansas Canon, returning to the Central Pacific, then to Sacra- 
mento and San Francisco (where we remained five days), then to 
the Yosemite Valley. We entered the Valley from the Cliflfe, and 
had what we considered quite a breakneck ride down the. steep 
path. We were told to allow our horses great freedom, — not to 
attempt to guide them, but only to hold the bridle lightly, in case 
they should stumble. We were quite willing to trust ourselves to 
them as soon as we* found how carefully they picked their way, and 
how sure-footed they seemed to be. This lack of necessity to 
guide them allowed us to gaze at oar leisure upon the beautiful 
scene before us. It seemed to us impossible that anything could 
be more beautiful. The snowy cliffs bathed in the last gleams of 
the sun, the atmosphere of shimmering blue, the magnificent trees, 
the cascades, the ever-changing vistas, — all combined to make a 
scene that brought to our minds the description of the mountains 
from which Bunyan's Pilgrim was said to look on the beautiful 
land of Beulah. We were so unfortunate as to visit the Yosemite 
during the dry season, and consequently snflSered a great deal from 
the dust. The dust from the roads poured over the wheels of our 
carriage like water in a mill-race. It was impossible to keep 
ourselves respectable. The fine dust settled in our sashes, hair, 
depressions and wrinkles in the face, until we felt like animated 
dust-heaps. As soon as we arrived at the different resting-places 
we were immediately met by an immaculate Chinaman, who 
dusted us vigorously before we were allowed to take a step. 



324 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

" We remalDed in the Yosemite only a day or two, as our time 
was limited, aud then left for a visit to the big trees. As we 
approached this region the trees became larger, taller, and more 
perfect in shape; our eyes becoming gradually accustomed to 
them, we were actually unimpressed when we first saw the great 
Sequoias, though our large wagonette, holding three on each seat, 
was driven easily through the hollowed trunk of one still stand- 
ing, and apparently in iiourishing condition. Though we took a 
cord and measured another, so as to give us an idea of the circum- 
ference and to be able to convince our friends at home by demon- 
stration, still we could not take in their great size. It was 
only on our return home, when in attempting to describe them we 
unwound and stretched out the string with which we had meas- 
ured the trunk, that we began to realize how enormous they were. 
To tell the truth, we began to feel doubtful about the correct 
measurement ourselves, and were very glad to have our silent 
witness with us. 

" While in California we visited Santa Barbara, where we saw 
the crimson passion-flower, covering the tall trees as a luxuriant 
vine ; Santa Monica, the seaport of Los Angeles, which was at 
that time in the spasms of a boom, with every other man a real 
estate agent, and lots at fabulous prices; Passadena, Monterey, 
and near Monterey the famous park and grounds of the Hotel del 
Monti. The old hotel had been burned one year before, and the 
new building was not completed ; but we did not regret our visit 
there, as we saw the unique and weird Arizona garden, which is 
such a surprise to the lovers of flowers. The plants were very 
queer, and many of them never before seen by us. The tennis- 
courts were surrounded by tall wire screens, over which purple 
clematis ran in the greatest profusion. The cacti in this garden 
were so distorted and curious in their growth that they were posi- 
tively uncanny. On returning to San Francisco we remained a 
week, and then went by sea to Portland. We passed through the 
Golden Gate about five o'clock in the afternoon. It was beautiful 
as a dream, even lovelier than the Palisades on the Hudson, and 
having a resemblance to them. We had a rather rough trip, and 
were, with the exception of Father, all sick. We reached Port- 
land, remaining there several days ; then went on from there to 
Port Townsend, where we were to take our Alaska steamer. We 



DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 325 

were detained there several days, and a dreary little place it was. 
When we at last got off, we were in the highest spirits and ready 
to enjoy the wonders of Alaska. We went up as high as the 
Muir Glacier, then to Sitka, Victoria, Tacoma, and then home, 
by way of the Northern Pacific, stopping in Minneapolis, St. Paul, 
and Chicago.'' 

This journey brought marked improvement to his health 
and hopefulness, as shown by the following letter to his 
eldest sister : — 

To Mrs. Mary C. Lane, New York, Dec. U, 1887. 

Yours of December 12th received this morning. I am sorry 
you have been troubled about my health. I assure you that I am 
getting on very well. My health has been very much better ever 
since I went to the Pacific coast. My girls and wife think that 
I have also been much improved by last month's agency work. 
It is true that I am not so strong as I was two years ago, but ever 
so much better than when I saw you last spring. I shall get to 
New York some time this winter, and yoii will see all this, unless 
I have some reverse. I take great care of myself. It is because 
I am so careful, and rested so much at Richmond, that Beck sup- 
posed me much weaker than I was. I would not work more than 
five hours each day. What troubled me was that it became evi- 
dent that the work would take much longer than I had supposed. 

My attacks of gout are now much less frequent and much less 
severe, and I think I am doing very well. 

God grant us both better health, if he sees fit; but if not, I am, 
fur myself, more than contented. My work for the Seminary is 
almost done. I can leave it very soon beyond all ordinary risk, 
and so that, with God's blessing, all will go well. My Estate mat- 
ters are in such a condition as will give little trouble to any of 
you, should I die. My own private affairs need some more atten- 
tion, and I should like to have sold out all the Estate property and 
turned it over, by dividing it to the different Trust Estates. I 
think I can sell it to better advantage than any one else. On 
these accounts I care to live somewhat longer. Otherwise, 
except for my love for family and friends, I have no such desire. 




"" *~ ' — ~ -~ - ~~ ^j@iH;tny ot yon, ezeept 

■— ^S? ''** ''**'' '^'^ 

|||](St|[^ and BtUl Dearer 

^umm=:,i^ ^'4V*^8pMiat loDgerl Yet if 

■"".■?S^Va«S#Sfc??i®k^l '^tt^i'. the" 

©^fitt^H^" *<-!«">*?. Dr- Manly 

_jW4%UM|fif nj^Blflbs of Louisville, 

iiiik8^mh?9w3k»J84i>ec. 15, 1S87, 

"^' *" B iB'^M wfett to the house, he 
with A sudden 
minutes before 
i. He resumed 
some time, at 
ifSk'^tl^^^^^i to develop 

S^iJ^^^^^Dr. Boyce was 
t.^jr»_-:«^^ja;j,jj|]g^gyg would 

Jrably improved, 
Lfetofore stated, to 
session of 1887- 
deal of agency 
:ng it up to the 
annual expenses 
summer of 1888 
ty, at Richmond, 
>hren nominated 
lamation elected 

^^^fn. Lane died flke 
l^n ; Mr. Kerr Boyce 
~~»rence remain, 

ig years, but never 
1^ and lamented. It 



DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 327 

President of the Southern Baptist Convention once more. 
He presided in manifest bodily weakness, but with all the 
high courtesy and cordiality of former years. In the early 
summer it became manifest that the only chance of improv- 
ing his condition and living for any further work was to 
take his family abroad for a long time. At various 
periods of his life, from early maturity, we have met with 
expressions of desire to visit Europe. During these last 
years the desire had been strengthened by the wish to give 
his daughters the opportunity of gratifying their taste 
and cultivating their powers in regard to music and art, 
as well as of visiting with his family the scenes of historic 
and literary interest about which they had been reading 
through life. Perhaps only some persons can fully appre- 
ciate the great sacrifice he had made through many years 
in postponing this high privilege for himself and his wife 
and daughters. Besides the long struggle to establish the 
Seminary, he had borne many burdens of toil and anxiety 
in regard to his father's estate, including properties which 
could not yet be disposed of without sacrifice, and in some 
cases annual wants which he must assist in supplying. 
There were also some important investments of his own 
which had not been in a satisfactory condition, and added 
much anxiety to his declining years. But in the summer 
of 1888 the way seemed to open for going abroad. Dr. 
Kerfoot had shown himself well able to keep up the teach- 
ing, and was also specially fitted to continue the work of 
General Agent, while the duties of Treasurer he could him- 
self perform through arrangements made beforehand and 
the help of his faithful secretary, Mr. Almond. Kerfoot 
could remove his family down from Midway, and occupy 
the Boyce residence. The endowment had not reached 
the necessary point, but it was possible to keep the Sem- 
inary going. New York Hall had been entered, greatly 
brightening the inner life of the Seminary. The business 
of his father's estate had come into a more manageable 



328 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

condition, and his own affairs were more satisfactory. So 
the long-deferred trip to Europe was now practicable. 

Let us insert here some further notes, kindly prepared 
by Miss Lizzie Boyce : — 

"At first his attacks of gout were at long intervals, but towards 
the ten last years of his lite they began to be more frequent. 
About two years before his death he was apt to be laid up every 
two weeks. The tendency to rheumatism and gout was clearly 
an inheritance with him, as many of his family connection were 
similarly affected ; two of his brothers used crutches during many 
of their last years. Father bore his suffering with great patience ; 
his books would be his consolation at such a time. He would 
have them piled up on the table beside him, and on his bed. He 
would write letters by the quantity, and seemed to us to accomplish 
as much in a certain way as when well. As soon as he could 
manage to stand, he was up and hard at work again. It was 
useless for the doctor to scold, useless for us to protest. He was 
pressed in so many ways with important duties that he felt 
compelled to take up his burden again without delay. 

" The task of revising, and often rewriting, his text-book on 
Systematic Theology, and of correcting the proof, was a great 
burden to one already overworked and suffering. He would 
frequently become so exhausted that he could scarcely hold him- 
self erect in his chair. In this last year his malady caused him to 
to be tormented with unnatural drowsiness, which hampered him 
greatly in his work, — in truth, he was apt to fall asleep, unless he 
forced his attention, when conversing with his friends, or at any 
time. This symptom alarmed us so much that we begged the 
physician, Dr. Holloway, to use his authority and put a stop to 
Father's continuing the work upon his book. The doctor warned 
him that no man could stand the strain he was undergoing 
without shortening his life, and that he was even then in a very 
dangerous condition. Father agreed that the work proved more 
exhausting than he had expected, but he had begun, and now 
wished to finish it. He added that he had not time to rest, as his 
business affairs and his duties to the Seminary were more pressing 
than ever, so that it was impossible for him to pui-sue any other 
course. Later on, he had one night a heart attack, the nature of 



DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 329 

which we did not understand. He entered the room where we 
were seated^ gasping for breath, and with his complexion so ashy 
that he presented a most alarming appearance. It was nearly 
midnight, and no servant in the house ; but I ran to a neighboring 
drug-store and telephoned the doctor. By the time he arrived, 
Father was better, and soon afterwards fek much relieved; but 
after this attack I noticed that any exertion made him pant for 
breath. 

" We were all so worried over his state of health that we began 
to urge Father to take a sea- voyage. The doctor said that unless 
we could put a stop to his working, he would certainly die within 
six months. This was so alarming that we used every effort to 
persuade him to take a prolonged trip. He then decided to go 
abroad, and remain there an indefinite period, until his health 
improved, returning to America at intervals for attention to press- 
sing business, and yet spending most of his time abroad. This 
plan of being absent for a long and indefinite time caused him to 
work more and more ardently in trying to arrange his affairs. I 
fear that this extra labor proved fatal to the end we had in view. 
By the time we were packed up and everything arranged, he was 
in a most alanning condition, and by the time we reached New 
York to take our steamer, I began to doubt the wisdom of our 
going at all. We feared to go, and we feared to return. Remem- 
bering that he was an excellent sailor, never suffering from sea- 
sickness, we concluded that we would at least not say anything 
until we reached Liverpool. If he was then worse, we would 
insist upon returning at once." 

The last days at home were saddened by the death of 
his oldest sister, Mrs. Lane, of New York, a woman of noble 
character and deep devoutness, belonging to the famous 
little Amity Street Baptist Church, with the celebrated 
scholar, Dr. William E. Williams, as long her pastor and 
friend. 

To Mrs. C. B. BurckmyeTj July 29, 1888. 

I suppose Sister was either buried yesterday, or will be to-day. 
I presume you were telegraphed of her death Friday just before 
noon. It is her great gain, but our sore loss. We shall never. 



330 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOTCE. 

know how good slie was, nor how mach she loved ns aQ. This 
almost breaks up New York to we. It was my great misfortane 
not to be able to go on to the faneral, bat it is impossible for me 
to leave before to-morrow (Monday) afternoon. I therefore tele- 
graphed them not to delay on my account. We shall be at the 
Bartholdi Hotel, Twenty-third and Broadway, and leave j»er 
^' Etruria" on Saturday, Aogost 4th. God bless yon and yonrs. 
Good-bye. 

We have the following letters written during the 
voyage : — 

To Mrs. Burdcmyer, Aug. 7, 1888, '' en voyage.^ 

I am going to write some letters to be mailed at Queenstown, 
and I write to yon first of all. You will be astonished to learn 
that none of us have been sea-sick, except a slight qualm or two 
on the first day for two of the girls. My wife has not been sick 
at all, for which she is occasionally very grateful. Our vessel is 
a very fine one, steady and fost, and our accommodations are very 
good. The food is not extraordinary, but it is well cooked, and 
abundant of its kind. There is no large crowd, and we are there- 
fore the more comfortable. I do not see where the steamer-chairs 
could be placed if we had double our number. I know none of 
the passengers. . . . Looking over the above, I fear you will not 
be able to read it. I am writing on a book, contrary to my habit 
of using a table. I sit on the lounge in my state-room, and 
write the best I can. It will be your business to read the letter, 
mine simply to write it. I am trying a new food for my wife, 
bovinine, which Sister used for several months, and which was 
strongly recommended to me by Amanda Lane and Lizzie Law- 
rence. My wife thus far consents to take it, and I trust will con- 
tinue. If I find I cau get it in London, I shall try it myself. We 
expect to be at Liverpool on Sunday. We have changed our 
plans. I had intended tx) go through Ireland first, and then Soot- 
land, and then England. But as I do not feel very strong, and 
the trip through Ireland would be rough, we have decided to go 
to Liverpool, and then probably branch off into Scotland, finally 
reaching London, — thus leaving the Irish travel for some other 
time. At the end of this journey we shall either stop in London 
for a few weeks, or go to some quiet place, like the Isle of Wight* 



DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 331 

tinless the doctor yoa get me should seed me to Carlsbad or some 
other springs. . . . We have had a slight rain almost all the 
time from Sonday mornmg, and the temperature has been so cool 
that I have enjoyed winter flannel^ with blankets and wraps. I 
shall hope to get a letter from you soon after my arrival. I do so 
much wish that we could have had the company of your family. 
The trip would then have been a perfect pleasure, and I am sure 
if anything could make me well it would be to have you with me 
always. The feeling of sadness natural to our starting off to be 
absent for so long a time has naturally been increased by the con- 
dition of my wife^s health and my own, and by the death of our 
dear sister. But I try to rest myself entirely upon the care and 
protection of our Heavenly Father, knowing that he not only 
knows what is best, but will assuredly will what is best. 

The other letter, written at sea three days later, is to 
Mrs. Arthur Peter, of Louisville. During the first year 
of his residence in Louisville, before removing his family, 
he was long the guest of Dr. and Mrs. Peter, and formed 
with them a cherished friendship. 

** Among all the friends whom I have left in Louisville, there is 
no one I have thought of so often since leaving as yourself. You 
have always been so kind to me that I have felt myself somewhat 
nearer to you than to a mere friend, so much so that I could not 
have loved you more, had we been blood relations. . . . We have 
had a delightful voyage thus far, and we are fast nearing its end. 
When the reckoning of the ship was taken to-day at noon, we 
were only three hundred and thirty miles from Queenstown, and 
we shall be there to-morrow morning, and reach Liverpool in the 
afternoon. My wife has been greatly surprised. She felt sure 
she would be sea-sick. But no one of us has missed a single 
meal, and we have been able most of the time to be on deck. I 
am sorry to say that we cannot report any improvement of health 
thus far. I am very weak, and can hardly crawl up on the deck. 
Walking even a short distance, with the uncertain footing one has 
on the boat, is very fatiguing. But I look forward to a change 
in this respect as soon' as we land. My wife also is able to eat 
but Uttle, though complaining bitterly of hunger. 



332 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

*^ You will pardon ine that I have written thus exclusively about 
ourselves. This is due to the fact that I have nothing else to 
write about, and to the further fact that I flatter myself 1 could 
write to you at present of nothing more interesting to yourself and 
your dear husband. You will at least have the satisfaction of 
knowing that I have not crammed up from the guide-book for the 
materials of this letter. No one can tell whether he will not be 
tempted sometimes to do so, in trying to tell of interesting matters 
to distant friends. 

" My wife and girls send their best love to you. Mine you 
already have, and I can send no more than has already been be- 
stowed. Give our love to your husband and all your family." 

We may now proceed with the notes of Miss Boyce: 

" We remained in Liverpool Qve days. During this time Father 

ran down to London to see about his money aiTangements before 

starting on the trip to Scotland. I shudder now when I think 

how great a risk he ran on this occasion. We doubted at the 

time whether he should go alone, but he insisted that he needed 

no one, and as his trip was to be a flying one, we yielded. When 

he reached London, he took a cab to the Bank. While passing 

along the crowded street, his horse fell, and he was precipitated to 

the ground. He told us this with much amusement upon his 

return to Liverpool, and laughingly described the way the crowd 

scrambled to get the pennies he threw them for having helped him 

«p and raised the horse. But all this time he was in danger of 

sudden death from heart-failure, and the doctors consulted in 

London a month later told me it was a miracle that he had not 

died at that moment. Remembering that we were alone in 

Liverpool, without friends or money, I doubt if we should ever 

have been able to have traced him. Happily he was not in 

the least hurt, and returned to us looking better than he had 

for some time past. 

*' Our first move was to Chester. This place was so exceedingly 
qnamt and interesting, with its cathedral, the first specimen of the 
lovely architecture we had read so much of, that our stay was an 
unalloyed pleasure. 

^* In Scotland we went to Glasgow, arriving in time to see the 
J^xposition opened by Queen Victoria. We had diflBiculty in 



DECLINING TEARS AND DEATH. 333 

geting rooms at the hotels, owing to the large crowds in the city. 
Our hotel was near the station, and we had a fine time watching 
the putting up of decorations all around. Seats were erected on 
the principal streets, and we got a comfortahle place to see the 
procession. We had an ezceUent view of Her Majesty, with Prin- 
cess Beatrice, Princess Alice of Hesse, and other notables. The 
Queen impressed, us as a haughty-looking woman. She bowed 
constantly, but coldly, to the enthusiastic crowd. The younger 
ladies really seemed to be enjoying themselves, and dispersed 
bows and smiles right and left. While waiting for the Queen we 
enjoyed the passing of the Highland troops, all the dans being 
represented. We heard the bagpipes for the first time really 
well played, and found the music quite stirring and impressive. 
At the Exposition we saw the Jubilee presents to the Queen, and 
noticed how even the poorest gift was weU displayed. 

''Then we went to Edinburgh, Stirling, and so forth. At 
Abbotsford Father was particularly interested in the collection 
of arms and curios, as^his much -prized Abbotsford edition of the 
Waverley Novels has numerous illustrations made from drawings 
of iibjects in this collection. He was also pleased with Melrose, 
Dryburgh, and Roslyo Chapel. In the Highlands and elsewhere, 
Father enjoyed coaching through the country. 

" After visiting the English lakes, we went to London, as he 
was far from looking improved, and we thought it best for him 
to see his physician before undertaking a further trip. Through- 
out this sight-seeing he was only able to get glimpses of the 
places and things he had so often anticipated visiting. He would 
sit patiently in the carriage, waiting for us as long as we wished, 
and only occasionally venturing to move about a little when feel- 
ing particularly bright and well. It was positively heart-rending 
to see him. Many of the objects we looked at through blinding 
tears, as we thought how entirely he was cut off from everything. 
He said he was content if we would only enjoy ourselves ; but 
how could we under such circumstances f 

" At the National Gallery in London he got his first view of 
the English mastei-pieces. On Sunday we went to Spurgeon's 
Tabernacle. Mr. Spurgeon was seated, and apologized for not 
standing while he preached, saying that he was unable to stand 
any length of time. We were much struck with Father's likeness 



334 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

to him. Father noticed it himself, aikl said he wished he was as 
mach like him in preaching power. After the service we went to 
Mr. Spurgeon's room in the rear, and received a warm welcome. 
Mr. Spurgeon did not then seem near so mach like Father as we 
had thought, as he had not the hreadth of hrow, and his face was 
more seamed. He asked Father to speak at the Pastor's College. 
When tM. onr errand in London, — that we had come especially 
to consult Sir -*^- Garrod, who was described to ns as ' the 
greatest authority in the world on govt and kindred diseases/ — 
he smiled, and said, ^ Well, perhaps he may do yon good ; he has 
a great reputation ; but as for me, I believe in none of them, — 
none have helped me.' He was at this time just recovering from 
a severe attack of gout. 

'^ Father was so much excited by this interview with the great 
preacher that he became pale and exhausted, and began to pant 
for breath } so we bad to cut short our stay, and leave for the 
hotel. Much moved by this meeting, his eyes filled with tears as 
be went away, and he said to me, 'How little I have accom- 
plished, compared with that man I If I can only get well and live 
a few years longer, I '11 make greater efforts.' " 

On Monday, September 3, he wrote to Mrs. Burckmyer, 
telling of various things which have been narrated above, 
and added : — 

" I have been singularly struck by the great resemblance between 
England and South Carolina. I had no idea that Charleston and 
its surroundings had borrowed so much in its early days, nor that 
the two distant places had continued to preserve the same old 
fashions. I have found everywhere houses of the same kind of 
dark brick, walls like those around so many Charleston places, 
— Judge King's, for instance, — farm-houses just like those on 
the old plantations in South Carolina, built of brick. In the 
homes you see the same kind of papering, like tapestry, that I 
used to see at Aunt Henry's house in Anson Street, and the old- 
fashioned Venetian blinds everywhere that were in all the houses 
when I was a boy, with the same wooden, carved cornice- work that 
is seen in old Charleston houses. Every day as I have travelled 
I have had cause to call attention to these resemblances." 



DECLINING TEARS AND DEATH. 336 

Miss Boyce proceeds : ^ 

^' Monday morning we went to the British Museum , and Father 
went to see Dr. Garrod, but found him absent, and was exam- 
ined by his son and associate in the profession. About an hour 
afterwards, as we were standing in one of the great rooms of the 
Museum, we saw him approaching, with a pale but quiet look, 
and when we anxiously questioned, he said that the doctor thought 
him in a dangerous condition, and had told him to go to bed at 
once. We returned to the hotel, and presently Dr. Garrod and 
another physician arrived. They examined him carefully, and 
then, in a private interview, told me plainly that he might die at 
any moment. I entreated them to help me get him home ; but 
they objected, saying that he would probably die at sea. The 
horror of this overcame me. Dr. GaiTod advised a change to a 
quiet boarding-place, and after visiting several places which he 
recommended, we chose one pleasantly situated on Conduit Street, 
near Oxford Circus. The doctor brought his own carriage, 
and assisted Father to make the removal. He was as tender and 
careful as if he had been an old friend. We found the place 
exceedingly comfortable, and much more cheerful than the hotel. 
Father was confined to his bed for weeks, as the doctor had given 
orders that he must move as little as possible, and must not 
attempt to write. Day after day passed while he lay there very 
quietly, bearing his long confinement with infinite patience and 
cheerfulness. 

'^ Dr. Garrod visited him daily, and seemed much gratified with 
his continued improvement. He told me he had never seen any 
one with greater vitality, and added that Father must have been 
endowed with a wonderful constitution. After some weeks he 
was allowed to take short drives, which he enjoyed greatly. His 
sanguine temperament made him feel as if he were in a fair way 
to perfect recovery, and he began to talk of his plans for the Con- 
tinent. I entreated him to return home, and begged the doctor 
to order that he should return to America. But he refused, say- 
ing that he thought we had best go to some quiet place for the 
winter, and return home in the spring. He added that with great 
care, and abstinence from mental exertion or worry. Father ought 
to live at least a year longer.'' 



336 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

During this confinement in London, with a frightful 
attack of dropsy in the chest, connected with his gout and 
kidney troubles, and of course embarrassing the heart and 
lungs, Dr. Boyce was visited by Mr. W. S. Jones, assist- 
ant-cashier of the Louisville Banking Company (in which 
Dr. Boyce was a director), and by Rev. W. E. Hatcher, 
D.D., of Bichmond, Va. Both were greatly pained to find 
him so feeble and suffering, and with so little prospect of 
recovery, but reported afterwards that he was patient and 
cheerful, sustained by submissive trust in Providence. 
Hearing, on Mr. Jones's return, of this prostrating and 
alarming illness, and thinking of his wife and daughters 
alone with him there in a distant land, one of his colleagues 
wrote, and urged him, if he should grow strong enough, 
to return home, in order to be within reach of his kindred 
and friends in case of similar attacks. He replied as soon 
as able to write, and explained his plan. He felt unable 
to stand a return voyage at that tipie, but hoped that by 
spending a winter in the south of Europe in the quietest 
way, he might escape gout and rheumatism, and be able to 
return in the spring. His only remaining earthly concern 
was to settle up finally his father's estate, which could be 
done after the following January, when the youngest grands 
son would be of age. He added that there must be no 
illusions about the fact that he could never hope to teach 
again in the Seminary; and if he should come back at all, 
he would resign at the end of the session. He said that 
the professors ought to be considering whom they would be 
prepared to recommend as Professor of Theology, in case 
of his death or resignation. A letter was at once sent, 
asking, in behalf of the professors, whom he would himself 
suggest; and he answered, from Paris, that he had no dis- 
position whatever to dictate, or to volunteer suggestions, 
on that subject, but that if the Trustees should ever care 
to know his opinion about the matter, it was that the best 
appointment would be that of Dr. Kerfoot. 



DECLINING YEARS AND DEATH. 337 

His last days in London were saddened by another case 
of profound family affliction, the death of his admirable 
sister, Mrs. Dr. H. A. Tupper, of Eichmond, Va. 

To Mrs. Btirckmyer, from London^ Oct. 19, 1888. 

Allen telegraphed me the news of Nannie's death. The bare 
fact is all I know as yet, and I feel anxious to hear. I suppose 
there are letters on the way which will tell all about it. What I 
already know is enough in one sense. When the despatch came, 
I was just stunned. I sat and looked at it, and wondered that a 
little piece of paper could so utterly crush one by a few words. 
It was so unexpected I When the news of Sister's [Mrs. Lane's] 
death came, I was partly prepared for it ; but this news was like 
thunder at noonday from a cloudless sky. I saw then how it was 
that my poor dear wife felt so dreadfully the death of her sister 
Sally, whom she had not thought of except as of one in perfect 
health. . . . My last letter from Richmond came from Nauuie 
heraelf. 

We have been greatly blessed by the preservation of the lives 
of so many of us to a good old age. But the circle, once broken, 
has again been broken in a very short time. Two deaths in three 
months I How soon may we not look for others ! And we owe 

■ 

gratitude not only for life continued, but for continued affection 
and love among us all. A happier family in this respect it would 
be very hard to find. May we only be brought more closely 
together as we are diminished in numbers ! 

To Miss Amanda B. LanCf from London^ Oct. 22, 1888. 

It is not often that a family so long preserved together loses 
two of its most valued members within three short months, nor 
do I know a family anywhere out of which two such women 
could have been taken. I write this soberly, feeling that none 
who knew them Will doubt its truth. Not even in our eyes, much 
less in their own, were they perfect ; but I think even their faults 
were but the outcropping fungus of their virtues. They differed 
very much, yet was each a type of excellence. Dear to me as 
will always be the homes and families they have left, on account 
of those now in them, they will be rendered still more so by the 
memory of these two dear sisters, with whose love God has 
blessed me for more than half a century of intimate fellowship. 

22 



338 MEMOIR OP JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Dr. Boyce and bis family left London for Paris at the 
end of October; designing to spend a montb tbere, and 
tben seek some pleasant seaside resort for the winter. 
He had procured a light wicker rolling-chair, so that he 
might be carried about without walking, which the doctor 
was anxious to prevent. During the two last weeks in 
London he had driven out every day, and gained strength 
rapidly. Again he was hopeful of recovery. He greatly 
enjoyed the ride from London to Dover, delighting in 
the beautiful scenery. His daughters remember how he 
would call their attention to the fields and hedgerows, 
the simple cottages here and there, or some novel sight 
that would arrest his attention. The day was sunny and 
the Channel smooth, so that they crossed most comfort- 
ably. He was much fatigued by the time they arrived 
in Paris, at twilight,- but brightened up as they drove 
through the brilliantly lighted streets. Their Paris abode 
was at the Hdtel des Deux Mondes. For several days 
he came down regularly to his meals, and delighted to 
drive, and sometimes walk a little way, with the family, 
in the mild and pleasant weather. 

Soon after reaching Paris he received a letter that gave 
him great pleasure. Mrs. J. Lawrence Smith, of Louis- 
ville, daughter of Hon. James Guthrie, and widow of the 
celebrated scientist, had in the middle of October privately 
expressed to the acting Chairman of the Faculty her inten- 
tion of giving to the Seminary fifty thousand dollars for 
the erection of a Library building, as a Memorial of her 
departed nieces and nephews, Sarah Julia Caperton and 
Mary Caperton, William Beverley Caldwell, Jr., and 
Lawrence Smith Caldwell. To the spontaneous and con- 
fidential intimation of this purpose she added, ''But you 
may write to Dr. Boyce about it. He is sick and suffer- 
ing abroad, and it may give him pleasure to know that 
the work of his life is making some progress.'' A letter 
to that effect was of course gladly written at once, and 
this was his answer : — 



DECLINING YEAtfcS AND DEATH. 339 

To John A. Broadusyfrom Paris, Oct 81, 1888. 

I received last night yours of October 17. I think we have 
both of us more to learn of the duty of faith and confidence in the 
working of God for our Seminary. With all our anxiety and 
hopes and fears, how true it is that in our agony of trouble as to 
what will occur, we find that God has found us ways of which we 
have never dreamed I Witness the gift of Governor Brown. 
We were praying for help, and crying oat in our despair; and 
almost without our lifting a finger, it came from a quarter to 
which we had never looked for such a sum. So, also, your letter 
of to-day tells me of a generosity not exceeding what might have 
been expected for worthy objects from the generous donor; but 
we have already had so much from that source that we had no 
right to expect more, — so much so that I have felt almost 
ashamed of having asked and received the five thousand dollars 
last given ; and certainly the help now proposed was beyond 
all possible conception, except by the generous heart which pro- 
poses it. . . . Please express to your friend my most hearty 
thanks, both personally and officially, for this contemplated gift. 
I know not what words to use ; none could express too strongly 
my gratitude and ^anks. May God reward her, for He alone 
can do so worthily of her generosity and noble purposes ! * 

He proceeds to speak, in the same letter, of arrange- 
ments he was about to make for transferring his own noble 
theological library at once to the Seminary. In May, 
1887, he had indicated to the Trustees his purpose of 
doing this, — a purpose long known to his older col- 
leagues, — but on the condition that twenty-five thousand 
dollars should be raised as a special endowment for the 
Library of the Seminary. In this letter he makes no 
condition, but says he has expressed to his wife and 

1 The Memorial library building was opened in May, 1890. It was 
carefully planned according to the best recent ideas and examples, and 
is one of the most beautiful, convenient, and every way satisfactory 
library buildings in existence. Its "book-room" will hold sixty 
thousand volumes, and can be easily enlarged to more than double 
that space when necessary hereafter. 



340 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOTCE. 

daughters his wish that all the theological books in his 
collection should, in case of his death, be transferred to 
the Seminary Library. These books had been chosen 
with constant care since his early life, and were regarded 
by him with the greatest affection. As the institution 
had always been limited to a small annual sum for the 
purchase of books, he had taken pains not to procure the 
same work — with some necessary exceptions — for his own 
library and that of the Seminary. Thus his noble collec- 
tion came into the library as exactly complementary.^ 

On November 3 Dr. Boyce wrote from Paris to his col- 
league, Dr. F. H. Kerfoot, about various practical matters 
connected with his residence and the Seminary, and then 
added as follows: — 

" Thanks for your prayers and kind wishes for my health. I 
could not deny my willingness to live for further service, but I 
think the days of such service are nearly over, and that there is 
not much to live for when one is really rusted out. The Lord knows 
better how long to use me. I am even willing He should keep 
me useless, but I am thankful to believe that such is never His 
will as to any of His servants. He often uses us for nothing as 

1 It is proper to state that his wishes in this regard were of course 
very carefully carried out The following year his daughters selected 
all the properly theological works, to the number of some five thou- 
sand, and took great pains to complete the collection and classifica- 
tion of the immense mass of pamphlets and periodicals which he had 
gathered with loving care through life, and which are a treasure to the 
Seminary collection. The Seminary Library now amounts to over 
twenty thousand volumes, and greatly needs a special permanent 
endowment, as well as particular gifts of money and books. Some 
persons have wondered that Dr. Boyce's noble collection was not kept 
separate. Yet his older colleagues were quite snre that he wonld him- 
self have chosen to have his books distributed throughout the library, 
according to subjects. Separate collections may be a pleasing memorial, 
but in that way the books are not worth half so much for actual use. 
Dr. Boyce had himself distributed the books received from the libraries 
of Professor Bailey, Dr. Manly, Sr,, and others. 



DECLINING YEABS AND DEATH. 341 

well as for somethiDg. I wish only to be His and to serve Him, 
He helping me to do so in humility and faith. God be with you 
and yours ! " 

We now extract again from Miss Boyce's narrative. 

" We had not been in Paris more than a week, before Father 
began to show signs of a return of his malady. The Paris physi- 
cian who had been recommended by Dr. Garrod did not, I think, 
understand the case. He was much alarmed at Father's condition, 
and gave medicine that was powerful and dangerous, — as after- 
wards explained to us by others, — and without benefiting his 
patient in the least. Each day Father lost strength. At first he 
did not seem discouraged at his relapse, and thought he had 
exhausted himself by too much exercise. But when after a few 
days of rest he failed to grow stronger, I think he began to see 
that no care on his part could strengthen the enfeebled heart, and 
that he could not live many more months. Still, he was as 
patient and bright as possible. He would always be much dis- 
tressed if we showed any reluctance to leave him, telling us that 
he was only contented when he knew that we were seeing all we 
could of Paris. The windows of his bedroom looked out upon 
the Avenue de FOp^ra, and during the first days of his sickness, 
when he was able to sit up in his chair, he would sit at the win 
dow and wave his hand and smile to us as we passed across the 
avenue below in going and returning. But after a few days he 
had no longer the strength to do this, but had to recline on a 
couch drawn before the fire ; for the weather had become cold, it 
being now December. He was much troubled at this time with 
insomnia ; his nights were turned into days, though fortunately he 
slept much during the day. He read during these weeks in Paris 
a great number of French books. We had two tickets at the 
Circulating Library, in order that he might have plenty to read. 
But afterwards there came days when no book would interest him, 
and no conversation could entertain beyond a few minutes. He 
was feeble, and off and on during the day would be drowsy. 

" After a while he began to dislike the physician, and refused to 
take his medicine. We were overcome with ft-ight, and anxiously 
urged him to try further treatment. I asked the doctor how much 
longer he thought he would live if he remained in Paris, and being 



342 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOTCE. 

told a week or ten days, we determined on a desperate effort to 
get oat of the city, though privately warned by the doctor that he 
might die ou the road. 

*' Dr. Garrod had recommended that he should go to Pau, in the 
south of France, and we found it possible to get a coupe a lit from 
Paris to Pan without change of cars. We left the city at night, 
Father being taken in his chair to a carriage, and lifted into the 
train. Our night was fearful, as we were in great anguish of mind 
for fear he might die at any moment. He seemed much exhausted, 
and for hours before we got to Pau he was asking if we were not 
nearly there. We arrived at Pau on time, but there was much 
delay in securing the physician whom Dr. Garrod had recom- 
mended. But in a few days Father began to improve. This, 
however, did not last long, and we soon realized that the end was 
near. Only once did he rally suflSciently to talk with me on busi- 
ness, and then it was only a few words. He was out of his head 
a great deal, and in his wanderings his talk was nearly always of 
the Seminary. We would constantly catch the names of the dif- 
ferent professors, and perhaps the last words we distinctly heard 
were something about Seminary and students. The day before 
he died he was conscious for several hours, but could not talk, as 
his tongue was much swollen. He recognized us, and pressed 
our hands or returned our kisses, but did not attempt to speak. 
An English clergyman, whom we asked to visit him, saw him for 
a few moments that morning, and prayed and talked with him. 
Father tried to say a good deal to )iim, but it was impossible to 
understand what he was saying. He soon became unconscious, and 
remained so until the end. This was ou Friday, Dec. 28, 1888/' 

The news of Dr. Boyce's death was cabled by Miss 
Lizzie Boyce to Louisville, and received with great con- 
cern by a wide circle of friends in the city, and especially 
at the Seminary. An informal meeting was held that 
afternoon of the Faculty and students, together with such 
Trustees and others officially connected with the Seminary 
as were within reach, including members of their faqiilies 
and some friends. Brief and loving addresses were made 
by Professors Whitsitt and Kerfoot; by Drs. Weaver, 
Warder, Eaton, Jeffries, and Hale; and by Messrs. George 



DECLINING YKARS AND DEATH. 343 

W. Norton, Arthur Peter, and Theodore Harris. Extracts 
from some of these utterances will be given in the 
concluding chapter. 

When the family returned, bringing with them the 
mortal remains of James Petigru Boyce, to rest in the 
Cave Hill Cemetery at Louisville, funeral services were 
held at the Broadway Baptist Church on Sunday afternoon, 
January 20th. ^ There were many visiting brethren from 
different parts of the country. The pall-bearers included 
representatives of the Conversation Club and of the Con- 
federate Association. Drs. Tichenor, Burrows, Weaver, 
J. M. Pendleton, and Kerfoot took part in the worship. 
It had been hoped that Dr. Manly would make the open- 
ing address, but he was sick with pneumonia. Addresses 
were made by Dr. Broadus, by Judge Alexander P. Hum- 
phrey, of Louisville, and by Dr. J. L. M. Curry. 

We add some stanzas of a hymn prepared for the occasion 
by Professor Marcus B. AUmond, and sung in opening 
the service : — 

" Deal genUy, Lord ! For we are weak ; 
The archer, Death, has smitten low 
Our Leader, and we pray Thee speak 
And cheer as in this hour of woe. 

" Deal gently, Lord ! Thy mighty ways 
Are not as ours. O hiessed name, 
Teach us in sorrow still to praise 
Thy goodness, and Thy love proclaim ! 

"Deal gently, Lord ! Our dead shall he 
New cause to fill our hearts with love ; 
New peace and joy in man and thee ; 
New hope and faith in heaven ahove." 

At the ensuing annual meeting of the Southern Baptist 
Convention, in Memphis, a Memorial Service was held on 

1 The Florida Baptist Convention was in session at the time, and 
through telegraphic communication held a Memorial meeting at the 
same honr. 



344 MEMOIK OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Sunday afternooD, May 12, 1889, with reference to Dr. 
Boyce, who had for several previous sessions (and for seven 
in all) been President of the Convention. Dr. J. L. Burrows 
presided over the memorial meeting, Dr. W. E. Hatcher told 
of his visit to Dr. Boyce in London, and addresses were 
delivered by Dr. H. H. Tucker, who was James Boyce's 
Sunday-school teacher in Charleston fifty years before, by 
Dr. J. H. Luther, who was his fellow-student at Brown 
University, and by Dr. E. C. Dargan, representing the 
Seminary students and South Carolina.^ 

1 Use will he made, in one way or another, of all the addresses on 
these funeral and memorial occasions, in the concluding chapter, and 
some ha^e been drawn upon heretofore. Dr. Tucker, a man of con- 
summate ability, has since died. Dr. Daigan is now a highly valued 
professor in the Theological Seminary. 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 345 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 

JAMES P. BOYCE was in character thoroughly genuine. 
The better you knew him, in all relations and amid 

all experiences, the more plainly you saw that here was 
a man made of good timber all the way through. 

He was remarkable for good judgment, having clearly 
inherited this high quality from his father. His faculties 
were well balanced, and acted in harmony. Of course he 
was sometimes mistaken as to men or measures, but very 
rarely. This sound judgment, exercised to an extraor- 
dinary extent from early life upon business matters, and 
accompanied by wide and varied practical knowledge, con- 
stituted that high business talent which was known to all 
in a general way, and most fully recognized by his most 
eminent .business associates. Let us extract from two of 
the many tributes paid after his death. The first is from 
the stockholders of the great Cotton Manufacturing Com- 
pany at Graniteville, S. C, which was founded by his 
father, and of which he was a Director from his youth : 

'' A minister of God's holy gospel^ called especially to preside 
over things spiritual, he was yet a safe counsellor and guide in 
things temporal ; and to his clear perceptions of business trans- 
actions and their relations, so rare in one of his calling, this 
Company is indebted for some of its most fortunate ventures and 
investments. ... In his death the business world, and especially 
the Graniteville Manufacturing Company, with which he was so 
long identified as a leading Director, sustains a loss almost, if not 
quite, as great as that spiritual world in which he shone a bright 
particular star. In every relation of life he was true and loyal 
to duty, and lived his life nobly and well.'' 



346 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

In the first meeting held at the Seminary after the tele- 
graphic news of Dr. Boyce's death arrived, the remarks of 
Mr. Theodore Harris, President of the Louisville Banking 
Company, in which Boyce had for years been a Director, 
were reported as follows ; — 

*' Intimately associated with Dr. Boyce in business relations, 
he knew him as a gifted man in business. He was a great man ; 
the most perfectly roanded character Mr. Harris had ever seen. 
On one occasion Dr. Boyce presented him a business paper ; and, 
deeply impressed with the great wisdom and ability of the paper, 
he lost sight of other things, and asked who was its author. As 
modestly as a maiden, Dr. Boyce confessed the authorship." 

He was a man of strong convictions and decided opinions ; 
and, as a kindred quality, a man of strong will and tenacity 
of purpose. This also was hereditary, and developed by 
lifelong exercise. He knew why he thought a thing was 
right, and knew why he was determined to do something. 
Yet it was never impossible to convince him if he was 
wrong, — sometimes quite difficult, but never impossible. 
There was no pride of pertinacity, no reluctance to con- 
sider other men's views and weigh their arguments; but 
he was decided of opinion and tenacious of purpose because 
he saw good reason for it, and as long as he saw no suffi- 
cient reason to the contrary. At the funeral service in 
the Broadway Church, Judge Alex. P. Humphrey, whose 
father had been an eminent Presbyterian minister and Dr. 
Boyce 's friend, alluded to the fact that a certain class of 
would-be practical people look upon ministers as a feeble 
folk, wanting in vigor and virility, and said : — 

" This man illustrated at once the manliness and the devotion 
of the Christian Minister; no one came in contact with him with- 
out observing at once the force of his personality, the strength of 
mind, the sagacity in business, the far-seeing wisdom ; but they 
found it all the time and always dominated by the one single- 
minded devotion to the service of his Maker. ... A Calvinist 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 347 

must necessarily have a clear miod and a courageous inind. Dr. 
Boyce had convictions that were sure, and a speech that was direct 
and to the point. He believed that before the foundations of the 
world were laid, God had fixed what part he should take in the 
great drama of the universe, that his calling and election were 
sure, and that ho must live worthy of the high vocation where- 
with he was called. Viewed in such an aspect, a human life 
ordained to the honor of his God, set in the orbit that was accom- 
plished by the revolution of the few years allotted to him, appears 
to my mind a creation sublimer than a star." 

On the same occasion Dr. J. L. M. Curry spoke ol 
Dr. Boyce's life as covering *^the most eventful period 
in the world's history, '' and said that the questions of such 
an age — 

'^demanded breadth of thought, sagacious and comprehensive 
action, and Dr. Boyce was abreast of the times. He was a 
student, a scholar, a teacher, a financier, a philanthropist, and 
a parliamentarian ; in all these and other branches he wad not 
simply mediocre, but he was remarkable and distinguished, — pot a 
follower, not a mere floater on the surface and current of thought 
and affairs, but a leader, a seer, a thinker, a bom ruler. ... In 
intellect Dr. Boyce measured up with his compeers ; self-reliant, 
courageous, broad in his convictions and in his teachings, he was 
the willing servant of a quick conscience, purified and elevated 
by love of God. He was no trimmer, no coward. Tolerant of 
difference, broadly catholic in his views, he nevertheless asserted 
and acted upon the right of private judgment in the light of the 
New Testament." 

Shortly afterwards a glowing tribute was paid to Dr. 
Boyce by Rabbi A. Moses (a member of the Conversation 
Club), in the Jewish Temple on Broadway, and we extract 
from the newspaper report : — ^ 

** This deep humanity and sympathy made Dr. Boyce, as nearly 
as a mortal mai} can be, an absolutely just man. . . . He was 
a perfect gentleman in the highest, broadest sense ; the ideal of 
chivalry. He could not have been rude to any one, even if he had 



348 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

tried, for bis ever-wakeful sympathy would not permit him to in- 
flict pain. . . . Had he turned his attention to politics, what a 
Senat.or he would have made ! What a President ! If he had 
been thrown among savages, he could have tamed and civilized 
them, for he was a bom leader of men. So much gentleness and 
kindness, mingled with a detennined and unconquerable will, — 
bis character was builded on a solid rock, while beneath it welled 
a fountain of living water. He was a God-fearing, a God-seeking, 
and a God-loving man. Before I came to Louisville, I knew 
Christianity only in books, and it was through such men as Boyce 
that I learned to know it as a living force. In that man I learned 
not only to comprehend, but to respect and revercnce the spiritual 
power called Christianity. . . . God grant that Christianity may 
long continue to produce such men ; for men like Dr. Boyce ring 
heart to heart, and draw us all towards that goal of which we have 
only glimpses, — that is, God, and the Kingdom of Righteousness f 
forever." 

The systematic arrangements and habits of a business 
man were carried by Dr. Boyce into all his affairs, and 
into the conduct of his daily life. The letters received 
wete carefully labelled, with date of reception and date of 
answer, and laid away in dated packages. The letters 
written, in all his last years, were copied in letter-books. 
Many of the newspapers he took were carefully preserved 
and put away year after year, and the more important ones 
annually bound. The pamphlets were distributed into a 
great number of paper boxes, marked with the subject, and 
often with the year. These and the bound newspapers are 
now a treasure to the Seminary's library. He once said 
before a Historical Society that any man who would destroy 
a pamphlet ought to be hung. That his many thousands 
of books should be systematically arranged according to 
subjects and sizes, was a matter of course. His wife and 
daughters heartily sympathized with this love for the 
books, and after their removal to the large house on First 
and Chestnut, the great Library was a delightful place to 
enter. 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 349 

Along with this love of system was a remarkable punc- 
tuality. Some of his associates learned to bestir them- 
selves, from observing that lack of punctuality caused him 
real pain. We may here extract, as in a former chapter, 
from some notes which Miss Boyce kindly consented to 
furnish : — 

'* I do not know whether punctuality was a special character- 
istic of my father in his youth, but every one who knew him in 
later years knew that he was most particular in this regard. In 
his anxiety to be always on time, he would start say fifteen min- 
utes earlier thau necessary for a city engagement, to allow for any 
interruption or other detention on the way ; and he never failed to 
be at an appointment some minutes before the time, watch in 
hand, ready to pounce upon the tardy comer. This was the only 
drawback to our pleasure when travelling with Father. He would 
often have us at the station an hour or more before the time for 
the train to start, until we would be exhausted. I think he felt 
a keen enjoyment, when meeting his classes, to see the tardy ones 
among the students come slipping in after the hour, with dismay 
expressed on their faces. He loved to tease them by pretend- 
ing to be quite angry, and would then tell us, on coming home, 
how sheepish they looked, and how they would apologize after 
class." 

He was a strong and deep thinker. Very rarely do you 
find a man so widely acquainted and actively occupied with 
practical affairs, yet so delighting in the profoundest 
thought. He really loved to follow out a close-linked and 
vigorous line of argument. He took pleasure for its own 
sake in the elaborate analysis, exposition, and vindication 
of some great theological theme. In our hurriedly prac- 
tical age many talented men imagine that they have no 
time for calm and prolonged thought; yet not only min- 
isters, but lawyers and business-men and teachers, might 
well observe the examples in which the reflective and the 
active powers of a strong man reinforce each other. 

Unlike some deep thinkers, Dr. Boyce was remarkable 



350 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOTCE. 

for wide general knowledge. We have repeatedly had 
occasion to notice bis extensive and thorough acquaintance 
with practical affairs, due to original talent and early train- 
ing, and to the necessity of supervising through life the 
varied investments of his father's estate. It was curious 
to see how much he knew about merchandizing, how 
thoroughly at home he was in banking, how familiar with 
the management of a great railway line, how keenly atten- 
tive while at Greenville to the details of farming. He 
knew also the national and State legislation connected 
with these and other departments of business. The love 
of wide reading which he had shown in boyhood was 
cherished through life. He had a good general knowl- 
edge of history, and was quite at home in the history of 
American politics, and several other departments. He 
was exceedingly fond of poetry. One summer he read 
Wordsworth solidly through, and greatly enjoyed the "Ex- 
cursion," in which many readers fall by the way. The new- 
est English and American poets he promptly read, and in 
many cases knew their works intimately. He had also a 
wide acquaintance with prose fiction, both the great Eng- 
lish novelists of earlier and later times, and the great 
French novelists, — always read by preference in the orig- 
inal. He was an adept in reading newspapers and other 
periodicals, — which is one of the chief arts of modern 
intellectual life. Reading aloud to any sympathetic lis- 
teners was with him a favorite pastime, while his wealth 
of varied feeling and rich tones of voice made it very 
pleasant for the listeners. Miss Boyce says : — 

''Poetry, romances, books of travel, comic sketches, — every- 
thing he entered into with keen enjoyment. One of my earliest 
recollections of Father is of his reading to us the ' Pickwick 
Papers,' and his fruitless efforts to control his laughter. Tears 
would roll down his cheeks, and his voice would fail him, as he 
strove to take us through the trials and scrapes of Mr. Pickwick. 
He always read with easy rapidity and varying expression. His 



GENER-AL ESTIMATES OF CHAKACTER. 351 

voice was pleasing, and under good control. He could read for 
hours without any apparent fatigue. I think he was fonder of 
poetry than prose. Mrs. Browning was a special favorite; 
Christina Kossetti's poetry and her brother's were also very dear 
to him. He was quite successful in reading negro dialect. A 
man of more extensive reading it would be hard to find. At one 
time he subscribed for nearly twenty religious papers, besides 
several secular ones, and half-a-dozen current magazines. At 
home he often had very little time to spend in reading, but he read 
a great deal when travelling. While soliciting funds for the Semi- 
nary before it was established in Kentucky, his travelling-bag 
would be packed, not only with books of general reading, but with 
text-books and writing materials, and he would often prepare a 
lecture on the train. It troubled him no little that these constant 
trips took him so much from home, and that his literary work 
had to be pursued in such a desultory way. He was a great 
reader of French literature, and neglected no opportunity to im- 
prove himself in reading and speaking the language. He took 
French lessons with his family a few years before going abroad, and 
also German. He enjoyed these lessons exceedingly, was highly 
amused at the mistakes of the others, and in his turn received 
with great amiability their jokes and laughter at his own mistakes. 
I think this was a very noteworthy thing in Father's character, — 
his perfect friendliness with his children, and the camaraderie of his 
intercourse with them. Our French teacher was sometimes quite 
overwhelmed by our jokes at his expense, and would inform us 
that F'rench demoiselles would never think of being so disrespect- 
ful. But Father only laughed, and said that he quite understood 
us, and did not mind it in the least." 

Let us add, from the same source, as to his general love 
of books : — 

'* His library was a source of great pride and enjoyment. At 
one time it bade fair to be a remarkably large collection, for a 
private individual. Most of his books were bought before the 
war ; in after years he could buy little beyond those necessary for 
his studies, and could seldom afford to indulge any longer in lovely 
bindings and rare editions. I consider this one of the greatest tiials 
that loss of fortune brought upon him. He still indulged him- 



362 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYtE. 

self occasionally, but then only for our benefit. At New Year he 
always presented each member of the family with either the com- 
plete edition of some author's works, or single works well bound and 
illustrated. I have seen him sit for hours with a book catalogue 
in his hand, marking the books he would like to buy, and really 
seeming to get great enjoyment oat of merely seeing what was to be 
had if he could afford it. He was charmed to show his books to 
friends. Ho and Colonel Durrett ^ were constantly in each other's 
libraries, and often exchanged books. I have heard him say that 
it caused him positive pain to see beautifully bound or illustrated 
books, and not be able to possess them. He seldom went down 
town without going to a book -store where he could indulge him- 
self in glancing over the new works. He bought his theological 
books with a view to giving this part of his collection to the 
Seminary. He was devoted to children's books, would read them 
with interest, and was greatly given to making presents of them 
to his little namesakes and other child friends. The last gift he 
gave was a book bought at Pau, and sent to a little grand-niece. 
He gave his oldest daughter when a child the prettiest and the 
best books suitable to her age. In fact, she was really possessed 
of quite a little library when only a baby. The Nightcap Stories, 
RoUo Books, Grimm's Fairy Tales, the Arabian Nights, and even 
some French books, were provided for her long before she had 
learned the alphabet. He took great pains to have only good 
illustrations in a book he purchased, believing in this way he 
might cultivate the taste for good drawing and painting." 

For nothing was Dr. Boyce more remarkable than for 
taste, in all the high senses of the term. His face would 
glow with delight as he gazed at a beautiful flower or 
tree, or surveyed an inspiring landscape. His home at 
Greenville was bright with a rich collection of flowers, 
common and rare, including a great variety of choice 
roses, and the spacious lawn was finely shaded by noble 
forest trees. All around Greenville, extending far west- 
ward to the glorious Blue Eidge, was much delightful 

1 Colonel R. T. Durrett is the foremost citizen of Louisville as to 
historical and antiquarian matters, and founder of the Filsson Club, 
and has a noble collection of books. 






GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 353 

scenery. These things he left with a keen sense of loss ; 
and it is only since he passed away that the electric cars 
are showing us how many a fine landscape may be enjoyed 
within reach of Louisville. Miss Boyce says : •— 

" In Greenville flowers are easily cultivated, and were there- 
fore a source of much pleasure to persons fond of cultivating tbeni. 
Mother's devotion to flowers amounted to a craze, and she was 
ably upheld by Father. Many winter evenings were pleasantly 
spent reading the catalogues, and long and earnest were the dis- 
cussions indulged in as to what they should order for the spring 
planting. These flowers were called by their botanical names, 
which sounded very learned to my childish ears ; and much it as- 
tonished me to hear the tremendous Latin terms with which even 
the tiniest flowers were named. When I learned many of these 
words it was a source of amusement to Father and Mother to hear 
me use them. When the boxes would arrive from the North, 
with all the newest plants beautifully packed in them, we all had a 
holiday. Father would put his books away, and lay aside his pen 
for a trowel, and would follow Mother around with the watering- 
pot, glad to do his share towards the planting. Every morning 
the plants would be visited and examined with interest for the 
first sign of leaf or flower. Mother had a collection of over four 
hundred jwt plants when she left Greenville for Kentucky. This 
taste for flowers awakened a renewed interest in their cultivation 
among the ladies of Greenville. Quite a number of them began 
a pleasant rivalry as to who should have the greatest variety and 
the newest plants. Mrs. Beattie and Mother would compare notes 
whenever they met, and a visit to each home was soon adjourned 
from the parlor to the garden. Father's greatest ambition was to 
have his lawn covered with blue-grass. He had already made 
several visits to Kentucky, and brought back wonderful accounts 
of the beauty of the grass. He spent a great deal of time and 
money, had the lawn ploughed and enriched, and carefully sown 
with blue-grass seed, but was unsuccessful in obtaining any steady 
growth." 

This recalls a slight incident that gave pleasure. At 
Dr. Boyce's instance, the writer had a carefully cherished 

23 



354 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

little plot of blue-grass at his home on Main Street. Once 
during the war some of John Morgan's cavalry encamped 
near Greenville. One summer morning two tall and hand- 
some young Kentucky officers came walking gayly by, with 
bright regimentals and sabre, and one of them suddenly 
started and said, ''Hi, Tom! Blue-grass! " 

Among works of art, Boyce's greatest delight was prob- 
ably in pictures. He kept the entree to every private 
collection in Charleston, and delighted in taking a friend 
to see this or that painting. He knew where anything of 
superior excellence was to be found in the public collec- 
tions of New York and Philadelphia. At the Centennial 
Exposition in 1876, the writer remembers to have gone 
round the picture-galleries with him and his family, and 
to have been greatly impressed by the unwearied enthu- 
siasm with which he and his wife surveyed every good 
picture, as well as the promptness with which they sin- 
gled out the really good pictures in a room. It was one 
of his most cherished hopes, as to the long-deferred visit 
to Europe, that he and his might enjoy the world-famous 
paintings; and we have seen that, though with failing 
strength, he visited collections in London and Paris, and 
wrote of hearty pleasure in beholding them. 

As to music. Miss Boyce remarks : 

'* He always took every opportunity when in New York to 
attend the best music, in Symphony Concerts, Oratorios, etc. 
He had heard most of the great singers that have been in this 
country. On one occasion he went from Greenville to Charleston 
for the purpose of hearing Carlotta Patti. I remember his telling 
many times of the exquisite pleasure he had in hearing Jenny 
Lind sing * I know that my Redeemer liveth.' The most diffi- 
cult and classical compositions were as much enjoyed by him as 
music of a lighter character. He spared no expense in the selec- 
tion of music-masters for his children, and always showed delight 
in their progress, often laughing, and telling them that they had 
inherited from him their great fondness for music. This he 



/ 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 355 

woald prove sometimes by showing them a small tuning-fork 
which, when a boy, he received as a prize for being the most 
promising pupil in a small singing-class in Charleston. He had 
carefully kept the prize, and would insist that it showed some 
latent talent on his part, which ought to come out in them." 

We have alluded in earlier chapters to his remarkable 
taste in regard to ladies' dress. On this point the daugh- 
ter says : — 

'' He was always interested in pretty dressing, encouraged us 
to purchase good materials, and never objected to the size of the 
bills presented. In early married life he bought nearly every- 
thing worn by his wife. On the trips to New York which he 
made two or three times a year, he purchased for her dresses and 
bonnets, laces and jewelry, and often undertook shopping for his 
sisters-in-law and other lady friends.^ He always showed excel- 
lent taste, was of course extravagant-, — being a man, — and was 
quite up in all the dressmakers' technical terms. He bought 
things only in the latest fashions. In later years he often objected 
to our selections of goods, usually because he considered the 
material not sufficiently handsome, and would teU us that he 
could buy better things. This was no doubt true ; but our bills 
would then have assumed pretty proportions. He was exceed- 
ingly fond of jewelry, selecting very tasteful and appropriate 
presents. He would have given Mother many a costly jewel, 
had it not been for severe injunctions on her part that he must 
not buy such expensive things." 

Mr. William G. Whilden says that soon after the war, 
when it was hard to tell whether any property was 
left, Boyce remarked to him, "I do not regret the loss 
of my means, except for two things. I like to have 
means of giving freely, and I like to see my wife dress 
handsomely." 

He took a similar interest in all the furniture and 

1 It may be remembered that he was once a partner in a great dry- 
goods house in New York. 



356 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

furnishings of a home, down to the least details. It may 
be remembered that when first setting up his home in 
Columbia, his fancy was to have the entire house com- 
pletely furnished when his young wife entered it. When 
he took a house in Louisville, the family were absent; 
and on arriving they found all things ready^ and entirely 
suited to their wants and their taste. 

On a kindred matter, Miss Boyce relates : — 

'^ He gave us many a talk, as we grew up, in regard to our 
behavior. He was most fastidious in his notions about the 
deportment of women. He thought they should always have 
themselves under perfect control, no matter how awkward the 
situation or how amusing the circumstances. If it was not the 
time or place for mirth, a lady should be able to be quietly dig- 
nified. It was difficult to make him believe that ladies could do 
anything out of the way. He believed all they said ; and although 
we sometimes tried to make him see that he was being deceived, 
he never could be convinced. He was always deferential to any 
woman. Even a young girl was treated with marked respect. 
His own daughters received many a courtesy from him which, 
probably, most men would never think of showing their home 
people.*'. 

The humor and wit for which we have seen that John 
Boyce and his son Ker were remarkable, descended in 
unabated inheritance to the grandson. He would often 
tell an amusing anecdote with contagious hilarity, and 
never with unkindness towards any one. In some moods 
his jests were very frequent and striking. He did not 
share the modern disposition to belittle puns, which the 
great ancient peoples used so freely, arid which by a sort 
of affectation are expected to be now received with a pre- 
tended rebuke. When introducing speakers at a banquet, 
and elsewhere whenever he felt like it, he would play upon 
men's names as freely as is so common in Hebrew and 
Greek, A former student, I. P. Trotter, recalls how in 
the class of Latin Theology one day, a brother who was 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 357 

called on to translate a difficult sentence said, *' Doctor, 
this looks right blue to me/' ''But I want it read,'' was 
the quick reply; and one can see how such a slight 
pleasantry would greatly relieve the situation. If we 
may judge from frequent results, men inclined to witty 
speech must be .often tempted to raise a laugh by irrev- 
erence, indecency, or sarcastic severity. Each of these is 
a very cheap thing. Dr. Boyce was entirely free from 
them all. In all respects he was a good converser, never 
engrossing the conversation, but listening with lively 
sympathy and ready for quick response; while his quiet 
good-humor and easy dignity would be diffused over all 
the scene. Like his father, he would put aside business 
troubles in the family circle. Once, after middle age, he 
mentioned to his wife a very heavy financial loss through 
sudden disaster to a house in which he was a partner; yet 
in ten minutes he was reading aloud from *' Pickwick, '' 
and laughing most heartily. 

Akin to the love of art and literature was a fondness 
for writing occasional verses, to accompany gifts, or on any 
special occurrence. He called them doggerel, but took 
real pleasure in making such rhymes, and was glad when 
people liked them. He would frequently translate also 
from little French poems, turning the phrases neatly, and 
sometimes with marked felicity. 

James Boyce was the soul of honor, and felt an instinc- 
tive scorn of everything base and mean. Until ill-health 
made him sometimes irritable, his friends never saw him 
manifest great impatience, except where some one had 
seemed ungentlemanly in speech or action; that he could 
not bear. He loved truth, and delighted in candor, and 
felt pained at the opposite of these in others. ' Dr. H. A. 
Tuppler impressively says : — 

" This love of truth was not only one of the chief ornaments 
of his character, but the best qualification for a professorship of 



358 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

Theology. ... It was hard for hiin to understand how people 
could do mean things and tell lies. His first impulse was to go 
to such persons and show them that they had done wrong, — never 
imagining, apparently, that they well knew their conduct to be 
ignoble, and their lips untrue. .He was not unfrequently checked 
in such a purpose, as utterly useless. Hence he sometimes did 
not notice things which were infinitely offensive to him, and 
had given him infinite pain. And his simple, generous, and 
magnanimous character sometimes administered the needed re- 
proof, and converted the evil-doer into a eulogist. Little as it 
may be thought, while the whole country rises up to do him 
honor, he had good reason to understand what Thomas a Kempis 
meant in these words : ^ It is good for us sometimes to suffer 
contradiction, and to be badly or disparagingly thought of, even 
when we do and mean well. These things often aid us in 
forming humility.'" 

And with all his high sense of honor, his dignity and 
self-respect, Dr. Boyce was marked by true humility and 
modesty. In the Memorial Addresses before the Southern 
Baptist Convention, both Dr. Tucker and Dr. Dargan spoke 
of his meekness. There are many who will understand 
how high a compliment it is when we say that James P. 
Boyce was a South Carolina gentleman; and it ought to 
appear something still more exalted and complete to call 
him a Christian gentleman. 

With a high-toned self-respect ought always to be con- 
nected a delicate consideration for others. This was 
certainly true of Dr. Boyce, and Dr. Tupper says was 
strikingly true of his mother. He delighted to recognize 
merit in others, and loved to give credit to his associates 
in any undertaking. If he ever seemed extravagant in 
speech, it was when praising a friend. If a student grew 
sensitive or restless under any requirement of the insti- 
tution, he would manage with delicate sympathy and quiet 
steadiness to relieve the strain of the situation. For 
example, John Stout tells that during his first session in 
the Seminary, 1868-1869, he was prevented by illness from 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTEK. 369 

making special preparation for the examination in Syste- 
matic Theology, and went to the room simply to explain 
his failure to undertake it. The professor urged him to 
stand the examination, if for nothing else, for the sake of 
good discipline, to promote the conviction that the exami- 
nations are important. That idea touched the soldierly 
element in the quiet student, and he ^^sat down to help 
keep up the morale of the institution." When he presently 
hrought up a paper, the professor again urged him, with a 
look of deep personal interest, to return to his seat and 
keep on writing. He did so, just to gratify his instruc- 
tor; and when they met that evening at prayer-meeting. 
Dr. Boyce took him aside and said, ^^Your paper was 
hetter than you thought. It has passed you. I knew 
you could pass if you would try." Mr. Stout adds: 

'* I am sore he sajv at a glance that morning how keenly I felt 
my disappointment^ and he determined to save me, in spite of 
myself. I fancy he saw just where to touch me to stir my dormant 
energy, and his kindness suggested to him to give relief at the 
earliest moniient that evening to the sensitive fellow who was 
suffering the mortification of failure." 

E. J. Forrester mentions in like manner some specially 
kind dealing with him. In the years following the war, 
when few people in Greenville had means of purchasing 
hooks, Dr. Boyce had lent his hooks very freely to students 
and families, until the losses were so heavy, especially in 
hreaking up sets, that he was compelled to make a rule 
against lending. In the first session at Louisville, Mr. 
Forrester wanted to write an essay in Church History that 
required examination of many books, and asked Dr. Boyce 
to lend him a number of works. He told him of the neces- 
sary rule, but invited him just to come into his library, and 
work there as long as he pleased, as he himself would be 
absent from the city for several days. The student keenly 
felt the personal kindness and personal confidence; He 



360 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

further mentions that finding himself appointed one of the 
speakers at the Commencement, he tried in various ways 
to escape from the task, and tells with what prompt firm- 
ness, mingled with good humor and delicate kindness, the 
Chairman of the ^Faculty overruled all his excuses, and 
made him stand up to the rack. H. A. Bagby writes that 
at first he looked upon Dr. Boyce as an austere and exacts 
ing man, and was greatly frightened when asked to preach 
before him in the Broadway Church, which the professor 
attended, sitting there with a face that seemed to the 
young man severe and critical. But at the close he called 
on Dr. Boyce to pray ; and the prayer was so devotional and 
tender, so thoroughly sympathetic with what he had been 
saying, that his own heart went out at once in warmest 
love towards the man he had so dreaded. Often after- 
wards he was struck with the sweetness and simplicity of 
the professor's prayers. It is related that some student 
re-entered the Seminary after an absence of several years; 
and upon being asked by a friend what made him come 
back, he said, " I want to attend Systematic Theology, and 
hear Dr. Boyce pray." 

At the same time Dr. Boyce was by no means wanting in 
sternness, where that seemed necessary. In one of his last 
years of teaching, a worthy student, who was making quite 
a poor recitation in *' Latin Theology," at length chafed 
under the professor's helpful suggestions, and went on 
without adopting them. Dr. Boyce simply became silent, 
and let him go forward till he wound himself up in a 
sentence, and could not go at all. Then another student 
was quietly requested to translate; and the former, who 
was really an excellent man, felt it so keenly that he 
almost fainted. Upon this incident a student remarks in 
a letter that Dr. Boyce could be patient as long as patience 
was a virtue, and as soon as sternness became a virtue he 
could be stern. Many other instances might be given of 
his wise and kind dealing with students. 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 361 

Several ministers and others have testified to the exceed- 
ing kindness with which Dr. Boyce would answer letters 
of inquiry about questions of doctrine or of church dis- 
cipline. He always declined to discuss a question which 
had already been brought before a church; but outside of 
this limit he was willing to take great pains in setting 
forth his views at the request of a brother who had dif- 
ficult questions to decide. In the case of a man widely 
known, such correspondence often becomes extremely bur- 
densome. It was really among the wonders of our age 
that up to a few years ago Mr. Gladstone answered every 
letter that was addressed to him upon the greatest variety 
of subjects, political, literary, religious, and all this by 
writing with his own pen. Dr. Boyce wrote with great 
facility; but it makes one sigh to look over the many 
long letters he had to produce, even in his years of failing 
strength, in order to answer the inquiries or meet the 
wishes of numberless correspondents. Many men in like 
position are simply unable to keep up such a vast corre- 
spondence without neglecting nearer and more pressing 
work. 

In every direction Dr. Boyce showed a generous and 
unselfish nature. Dr. T. H. Pritchard, who was for some 
years his pastor at the Broadway Church in Louisville, has 
declared that Boyce was the most unselfish man he ever 
knew. On one occasion he added, ^' except the sainted 
Wingate," who was Pritchard's predecessor as President 
of Wake Forest College. A gentleman who was long 
Boyce's business partner says : — 

" I never had advice from him which could be construed in any 
manner to have been given from interested motives, or for the 
furtherance of his own interest to the detriment of mine. . . . His 
liberality in business arrangements, his genial kindness of nature, 
and his gentleness of manner even when suffering pecuniary lo&s, 
was unequalled in my observation. He would speak mildly even 
of men who had grossly wronged and defrauded him." 



362 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

His considerateness and generosity, and his noble qual- 
ities in general, awakened a very hearty affection on the 
part of men who acted in the capacity of private secretary 
for him. Mr. E. N. Woodruff, his secretary for six years 
after the Seminary came to Louisville, says : — 

" He was careful to test the capacity of those who came into his 
service. He withheld much from me at first, and little by little 
would intrust me with more extended work. When work was 
done to his satisfaction, he never failed to commend, and always 
with great delicacy." 

A later secretary, Mr. Almond, cherishes his memory 
with unutterable devotion. 

It is widely known that Dr. Boyce was very generous in 
the way of giving money, both as to general religious 
contributions and for the relief of individuals. But the 
extent of his varied beneficence was far greater than any 
but his most intimate associates could imagine, and was 
fully known to no one person. Dr. H. A. Tupper tells- 
us : — 

" One who well knows what he affirms has said that Dr. Boyce 
gave away more than he spent on himself and family, and that 
his beneficence would be represented, in a material way, only by 
hundreds of thousands of dollars. And yet this was the smallest 
part of his generosity. The freeness and fulness with which he 
forgave ofiences, the lovingness with which he cheered persons 
who were in distress through evil-doing, and the wealth of tear- 
ful and heartfelt sympathy with which he comforted the afflicted, 
transcended all the other giffes. When he conferred favors, he 
made the recipients feel that he himself was favored ; and while 
he had many applications for help to which he delighted in re- 
sponding favorably, it was his peculiar delight to anticipate the 
necessity of application, to respond to heart-anxieties as yet unex- 
pressed in words or acts, and to answer for the Lord prayers only 
made in secret. During his last illness, there were striking illus- 
trations of this thoughful charity, but too sacred for the page of 
Jfaoh iifl he was to public view, he was vastly more in 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 363 

his family, among intimate friends, and under the eye of God, 
alone with the subjects of his Christlike kindness." 

We may add a slight incident which is suggestive. A 
little bo}*^, ten years old, who bore his name, had received 
so many proofs of his loving remembrance that one day, 
generalizing as children will do, he said to his mother, 
** People are very kind to their namesakes.'' Maybe it 
would be well for us all to generalize as children do, and 
judge human nature by something good and great, rather 
than to judge people in general by the selfish and the 
wicked. 

Dr. Richard Fuller once said, ''The Lord gave Boyce 
such a big heart that it was necessary to give him a big 
body to hold it." Yet to all that we have said it ought to 
be added that he took the greatest pains to give only to 
deserving objects, thus making a wise investment of means 
which he held as a steward of the Lord. As far back as 
1859, during the S. B. Convention in Richmond, when he 
was overwhelmingly busy with efforts to get the Seminary 
afloat, and at the same time actively participating in all 
the work of the Convention, he took the writer aside to 
inquire about the young Baptist church at Staunton, Va., 
saying that Mrs. Linda Peyton had asked him to give a 
hundred dollars for the church, and he wanted to be sure 
that it would be well bestowed. This was characteristic 
of him through life; and even those of us who can give but 
little should in like manner be very careful to invest 
wisely what we hold in the Master's service. 

One other matter must be mentioned in connection 
with Dr. Boyce's kindness and generosity. His daughter 
says : — 

•^ My father was always exceedingly kind to his servants. He 
never failed to greet them pleasantly when returning home after 
an absence. His manner towards them was always considerate 
and kindly. On some of his visits to our old home at Greenville, 



•^- 






Iwoald BomelimeB 
ireciated thb very 
being entertaiDed 



f|^&jB0llB«i7>f|iiS9-t'(>nnerl7 been his 
l|l*tt;f^V^'^S)?^ a gift from Ler 







ftSt. MsDlyw 

it«d them 
lived tlietn with 
lie, and waited ou 




-,^;I^yce'B death was 

QgJifiSnow the time of 

t|»ttend it. Mrs. 

•. Wise, of CoT- 

irvants in their 

[■wheuever it was 

another visit. 

ibed would be 
Ired and friends, 
letters to his 
ipest and dearest 
le persons most 
lily manifest to 
Tom Miss Boyce'a 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 365 

''He was an ideal father, in whom supreme tenderness was 
mingled with great firmness, who showed utter self-sacrifice and 
tireless care and love towards his children. Even when we were 
very young, and could hut little realize how much he studied our 
every desire and need, there were a thousand proofs of how his 
thoughts were centred in our childish interests. In the selection 
of gifts for us at Christmas he took the keenest pleasure, never 
allowing any one to take this matter off his hands. He always 
showed a remarkable faculty in the choice of beautiful and unique 
presents. Every doll, every game or book, was selected for us 
by him, and him alone. It seems to me a remarkable fact that 
amidst all his duties these little things, about which he need never 
have troubled himself, were claimed as his special pleasure. He 
entered into the joys of the Christmas season with all the delight 
of the children. Chiistmas was a time of great enjoyment in our 
home, and to my father a time dearer than any other part of the 
year, I think. From our earliest years he was the first, the best, 
the truest friend. His letters written to us are filled with expres- 
sions of love, and sweet assurances of his perfect confidence that 
we would always do what would be pleasing to him. These 
letters were charmingly adapted to our childish years. He had 
the rare power of entering into the little things that please and 
interest a child. Sometimes his letters were quite merry, abound- 
ing in all kinds of pleasantry ^ others were full of serious talk in 
reference to our characters and aims in life. He sometimes wrote 
to his small namesakes when babies, with comical messages for 
the baby to tell Mamma, etc. When it is remembered that these 
form a part of an enormous daily correspondence of a man who 
often wrote late into the night, not daring to postpone to another 
day the answering of letter^, which if allowed to accumulate would 
have become an insurmountable task, one cannot but wonder at 
his never neglecting these little things, as many might have felt 
justified in doing under similar pressure. 

** His sweetness of temper was most remarkable. Only in the 
last few years of his life, when all the time more or less unwell, 
was he ever iiTitable j and then so rarely that it was only notice- 
able because it came from one whom we had long known as 
amiable at all times and under all circumstances. When I was a 
child, I do not remember that my father was ever cross or ever 
scolded ; and I recall my surprise when he said on one occasion 



■S»S*. 







)P^ ■"■» »- ■m'miick temper, and 

**'""" "^ ' * when others 

it Dee«Biary 

touch teaderneBB 

ip^Bfeith his approvul. 

■^U^fider in her devo- 

~1''li soft band upon 

I lis thoughtful neas 

thought 

his <!ouipaQioiis. 
Tated them, — their 



^«nd initgazineB tu 
fSfii us every possible 



^k J|ti^M|^kWa3 manifested 

rtH**So.ran:.at ,^,^^0 strongly 

'd has written 

la, in March, 

that her little 

would often 

her. She men- 

ither way. She 

to make a per- 

not hear to it, 

inough for them 

,n incident of 

arm affection 

8. The class 

_ le of recitation 

■(latitat ion speaker 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 367 

cane, '^Dr. Boyce, your boys stick to you." Mr. Nash 
proceeds : — 

" The Grand Old Man was taken completely by surprise, and 
was evidently much affected by the slight token of appreciation 
coming so unexpectedly. I never saw him so moved. His voice 
waa partly choked by his emotion, as he replied somewhat 
brokenly. He said in substance that he appreciated the token 
of affection all the more highly because he had felt at times that 
he was not understood by his classes. His English and Latin 
Theology he knew must be hard and dry to many, while the 
method of reciting he required, and his examinations, were diffi- 
cult. He said he knew* that other subjects and teachers were 
more interesting, and he felt sometimes that his efforts were not 
appreciated, but that in his love and interest in his students and 
their success he yielded the palm to none. We were all touched, 
and tears glistened in many eyes." 

When his death was announced, the first brief editorial 
notice in the *' Seminary Magazine " was as follows: — 

"No word from us can express what Dr. Boyce was to his 
students. It was one of those sweet and tender relations that 
cannot be described, and can be understood only as felt. In 
behalf of those who studied under him, we have tried hard to say 
just what we feel, but all in vain ; for, try as we may, we uncon- 
sciously penned the words, ^He loved us, we loved him,'' The 
^hundreds of old students who read this will understand it without 
comment. They are as unable to explain the matter as we are ; 
they can only say, * We loved him,^ " 

Of the warm affection which existed between him and 
his colleagues, especially those who had toiled and suffered 
with him from the beginning, there has been occasional 
indication in this narrative, and no attempt can be made 
to speak of it further now. But of the affection which he 
awakened in all who can:ie into intimate association with 
him, one slight token must be added. Not long before he 
left for Europe, his faithful private secretary brought 



''■^liftSlfiffS^'M*'^CB'^''7> ftQ^ being 

Fife JBJO "«' Ift^aBiM&Tae of the family 
^fl8|gfc^-|M»B§^*' saying, -You 
|fkait|B:^:flVi||^«»iai^nd!" was the 







KklM&PB 'S^vvB diapositioD, had 
MUS?«» wA'Wai': ji| ^Iie had grown up 




(fl had been sur- 
^j J| His wife kept 

daughters 

to be intensely 

I'SC ^Says took delight 

"'~ ;hters from any 

to leave early, 

of the domestic 
im a matter of 

,nage everything 
I doing BO upon 
bard to please, 
of others, 
in Dr. Boyce's 

!nd well-halanced 
every memorial 
ice of this fact, 
said: — 

1 yet, with leam- 

'thiug desirable in 

_ iicity and humility 

lOKfttl^ the strength of a 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 369 

Dr. Whitsitt said, at the first memorial meeting in the 
Seminary: — 

"He had a rare combination of qualities. His character was 
greater than his works. The chief feature of his character was its 
elevation. He grew up in the golden age of the Southern nobil- 
ity, in the State and the city where its best types were supplied. 
This elevation of character deserves emulation. He had also 
great simplicity, and at the same time a vigorous sturdiness. He 
had convictions, and the courage of them. He was gentle and 
accessible; conservative, and yet thoroughly reasonable. Nature 
made him great, and grace made him greater. He will be one of 
the landmarks of our denominational history.'' 

Dr. Dargan said, at the memorial meeting of the 
Southern Baptist Convention: — 

" A strong character lay at the basis of all that Dr. Boyce was, 
and gave effect and worth to all that he did. A strong character 
is not the gift of accident, nor is it the work of a day. It is not 
only the condition precedent to greatness of achievement, it is itself 
achievement, and at the same time the accompanying and ever- 
developing power to achieve. The fundamental elements of strong 
character are a clear mind, a pure heart, and a powerful will. All 
these were notably present in Dr. Boyce. He was a thoughtful 
man, — capable of thought, and wisely using the capability. His 
powers of mind were perhaps not naturally greater than those of 
many others ; but ho both trained and used them well. It was 
no way of his to say and do things that had not honest, hard 
thinking back of them." 

And Dr. H. H. Tucker: — 

'' He seems to have inherited the business talent of his father, 
the Hon. Ker Boyce, who, many years ago, was the millionnaire 
president of the Bank of Charleston, and a man of wonderful 
business sagacity. Oh, it was beautiful to see James Boyce lay 
his financial talent, which might have brought him millions, on 
the altar of the Lord I From his mother he seems to have inherited 
the spirit of meekness ; and where was there ever a gentler spirit 

24 



370 MEMOIR OF JAMES P. BOYCE. 

than his ? He was tender as a woman ; his artlessness and sim- 
plicity of nature were like a little child ; yet he was wise, and he 
was hravO; and when some great emergency called for a man, 
there was Boyce ! The lion and the lamb lay down together in 
his breast, and, in strange antithesis, he possessed the qualities of 
both. I know no better eulogy for him than this : he was always 
just what the occasion demanded. 

*^ We have had men, and have them now, superior to him in one 
particularor another ; but where is there another such combination 
of forces, intellectual, moral, and social, that completely round out 
the character of a man I There are some — not 90 very many — 
who excel him in learning ; some — a considerable number — who 
are more brilliant ; none of better-balanced mind^ or of better- 
balanced character, none of more trustworthy judgment, none 
more soundly orthodox, none of profounder convictions, none truer 
to their convictions, none more industrious, none more self- 
sacrificing, nope more generous, none more genial or magnetic in 
personal intercourse, and not one who combines all these qualities 
in a character so full of power. It was his Washingtonian even- 
ness of development, his perfect poise, and his huge motive force, 
all sanctified by grace, that made him great." 

Dr. Arthur Peter, himself a man of sound judgment 
and wide experience, when asked what he thought the 
most notable thing in Dr.. Boyce's character, said, ^* The 
well-rounded development and perfect balance of all his 
powers.'' His wife, the enthusiastic and ardent friend, 
answered a similar question by saying, " Oh, he was per- 
fect, — the most perfect mortal man I ever knew." Eev. 
G. W. Samson, D.D., long President of the Columbian 
College (University) in Washington, and now in New 
York city, wrote some months after his death: ^^Dr. Boyce 
was in every respect the noblest spirit that I ever met." 

From all this gathered eulogium he himself would have 
shrunk in grief and humiliation. But we are not writing 
for him, but of him, — writing for the comfort of those who 
loved him, and for the benefit of those who read concerning 
his character and work. 



GENERAL ESTIMATES OF CHARACTER. 371 

When John Knox died, in 1573, Beza wrote : ^*We 
have been afflicted beyond belief by the death of* Mr. 
Knox; for the death of good men always appears pre- 
mature." Inscribed on the wall of Knox's house in 
Edinburgh, this sentiment has no doubt awakened a 
response in many hearts concerning one good man or 
another. So we were tempted to feel about the death of 
Boyce. But it is a nobler and more helpful view that was 
suggested to us all by Dr. H. H. Tucker, in the address 
already quoted , and with his words we may conclude : — 

*' While our great leaders are alive, we cannot do without them. 
We could ribt have done without Boyce. But when they die, we 
can do without them. God never takes them away until their 
work is done. . . . When we need another Boyce, God will give 
him to us. Now the cause needs tis ; and whether we be great 
or small, it cannot do without us. Therefore, let us renew our 
zeal- and consecration. . . . Blessed bo the memory of Boyce ! 
The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the 
name of the Lord ! Be still, smitten hearts ! The past is safe, 
— we can look back and see it ; the present is safe, — we can look 
around and see it ; the future is hidden from us, but still we are 
just as certain that it too is safe, for — 

" ' Behind the dim unknown 

Standeth God within the darkness. 
Keeping watch above his own. 



f it 



O Brother beloved, true yokefellow through years of 
toil, best and dearest friend, sweet shall be thy memory 
till we meet again ! And may the men be always ready, 
as the years come and go, to carry on, with widening reach 
and heightened power, the work we sought to do, and 
did begin ! 



